======
Allied
======

.. post:: 2003-04-08
   :author: tychoish

I'm staying after school tomorrow to talk to the Site Based Management
Committee about establishing a Gay Straight Aliance/Support Group at our
school. It should be an easy process, and the nice thing is that we
don't even need to have this group's approval, because of the
established practices and all of the language in the Federal Equal
Access Act, and how the school has functioned in the past; all we need
is the principals go ahead. We have faculty sponsors, and support from
enough students to, at least in my mind make it work.

The ironic thing is that as of next year, I'm going to be the student
representative to the committee for the 2003-2004 school years. How
funny. Really I see this as ironic, because after trying to get on the
student council and failing reputedly, I'm going to achieve something
way more important than that, and I'll get a vote (I assume) that really
counts for something. How awesome is that? Not to mention the fact that
collages especially schools like Antioch will jump over this kind of
community leadership kinds of things. And the truth is that I think it
would be nice to be a part of this kind of discussion, instead of just
being affected by the implications of it.

But about the Metro High School Gay Straight Alliance/Support Group.
It's really a benign group that has the distinct possibility of being
one of the most active groups in our little school of 236 (this year;
normal capacity is about 260). It's also going to be established with a
minimum amount of hassle, and with all luck meetings will start next
year. One thing I'm really proud of is that it'll set a really good
precedent: as the first school in the district to have a GSA, students
in other schools within the district (there are 12 high schools in the
district) should be able to establish groups without any real problem.
Also, since Metro is the top performing school in the area, and ranks
very high in the state as a whole, we'll be noticed, and I hope some
good will come of that.

We're also fighting against a bill in the state legislature that would
make it illegal for a school or school district to adopt
non-discrimination language that is more accepting than existing state
and federal laws. Basically, it would make it impossible for a school
district to protect GLBT students, and staff even if they wanted to.
Because of the way the Federal Equal Access Act is worded, this won't
impact the group but it's a scary prospect in any case.

In any case it'll be a big day, and hopefully a fairly easy one at that.

