=============
An Old Friend
=============

.. post:: 2004-04-14
   :author: tychoish

*Borrowing an entry writing style from two of my favorite
siblings/friends I'm going to write about a recently rediscovered old
friend.*

Once upon a time, there was this kid, who was really bright and loved to
write. He was also the biggest geek and was fascinated by the quickly
developing pace of mobile technology, PalmOS, PocketPCs, WindowsCE,
wireless communications, digital intellectual property, mobile writing,
and a host of other things. He read Jeff Kirvin's Writing on Your Palm,
and it wasn't long before he scraped his pennies together to buy a
Handspring Visor with one of those nifty folding keyboards.

Being a Visor fanatic, he quickly joined the ranks of VisorCentral users
and became an avid supporter of that device and a prominent member of
the community. But as you can imagine, there weren't many other young
teenagers/pre-teens involved in the PalmOS community. Because doncha
know, most teenagers have better things to do then organize their
schedule and contact information on a dinky little computer with a
resolution of 60 pixels by 60 pixels.

But there was another.

And they became attached, IM-ed eachother daily. But like all good
things, it was a finite affair.

Our protagonist moved on to other fancier devices and loved it, and took
a different track. During this phase of his life this kid did lots of
cool stuff for someone who was 14. Like, be an executive editor for a
radical ebook publishing company called Free-ePress. Contribute to the
website that started it all Writing on your Palm, Various freelance
articles for places like, Suite101, PalmPower Magazine, and the gem of
the bunchPocketPC Thoughts.

But these two young characters still talked occasionally, but as they
had ideological differences they started to fall out of contact.

One of our protagonist's editor's, told him that he needed people who
could dedicate more time to the site, basically that he needed people
who could be in front of their computer during the day, which virtually
obliviated the need for a mobile computing solution. When this editor
also told him that there was no way he could compensate our protagonist
for any of his work, our protagonist finally bowed out, realized the
idiocy of having a mobile computing device and sold his HP Jordana,
bought a cellulose based calendar book, and at the ripe old age of 15
retired from the field of mobile computing.

He used what he had leared to develop an awesome website, and he wrote a
book, and generally enjoyed life.

But he hadn't forgotten his partner in crime, who still clung to the
vestiges of their former commonality. Despite the growing rift between
them they still talked but one day something happened.

They talked about sex, as adolescent males are prone to. It was awkward.
Our protagonist had very little (nothing to boast of, as someone who was
still very much discovering his sexual orientation) and his friend
somehow was able to boast of something. Trivial really. After this event
which our protagonist probably has logged somewhere, he mostly lost
interest. They completely stopped talking and went about their lives.

Then, just recently, our protagonist, got bored and opened an unused
corner of his buddy list, found his old friend online and said,
innocently enough "Hello".

And guess what. His friend turned out to be gay too. And doing the same
academic program (IB). And interested in a school in his area. And they
have similar interests that don't involve visors. And similar life
experiences that despite the disconnect in their communication.

--------------

Isn't life just funny like that sometimes?

