============
Being a Geek
============

.. post:: 2006-09-28
   :author: tychoish

It's funny. I write TealArt enters with a very strange intended
audience, and it's an audience that's pretty darn old. I joined a
listserv a little while ago, and everyone on the list is having fun
setting up their 'blogs' (blogspot affairs), and I feel like a seasoned
pro, because not only have I been blogging for a really long time (I
think there has some form of CA/TA blog this or blog that for, 5-6
years, maybe more.) This is an exceptionally long time, when you think
about the history of the blog. The end result is that I'm writing for a
very strange audience: It's a bit detached and I attempt to establish
some sort of authority/legitimacy. I also don't expect that there are
many *real* people out there, which I know can't quite be the case, but
no matter.

In the past few weeks I've spent a very little amount of
time/energy/thought, rethinking the way I use my computer. Mostly this
has consisted of a lot of observation of usage habits, software usage,
and nagging desires for new features/possiblities. While I was in St.
Louis I listed off all the applications that I use regularly in a
TealArt entry. I've subsquently changed everything I said in that entry,
because writing that entry started a minor observation project that I've
been working on to see what I need/want most and what I need to do to
get this done.

My biggest change has been a move *back* to Voodoo-Pad from
OmniOutliner, because I feel like I wasn't getting the most out of the
program (I never did get how to use columns, and I always felt like the
formating, an aesthetic concern I'll grant you, would never behave,)
this I think is mostly a problem with my brain and how it works in
combination with the kind of tasks that I seem to be focusing on. I
learned from 43Folders that there's going to be some sort of Omni kGTD
program (a productivity methodology/application) on the heels of being
released. Sweet.

I like VoodooPad because it behaves a little better with the formating,
and the new version (which I completely missed) has both multiple window
and tabbed editing/browsing of your notes which is great. As is the new
file format which allows for bigger file sizes and integration of PDF
files (so you can have PDF articles that you get from JStor into
VoodoWiks. It's all great. There's also a feature in the Pro version
that allows you to set up an integrated wiki server through voodoo-pad,
which isn't a feature I'm going to need for years, so I am without.

I've also decided to give up the ghost on Microsoft applications for
Mac, which doesn't seem to make a lot of sense. I'm using my weblog
editor (more on that in a moment) and VoodooPad for all of my text
drafting, and though I might turn on Office every now and then to create
knitting patterns, between these apps and google there isn't a lot that
I could want from Microsoft, and I hate the drain on resources to keep
such programs open. Despite the ugly icon, I really want to use Mellel,
because it looks really cool, and works pretty good in the demo. The
*only* think I need such a program for is for Manuscript editing (and
maybe some basic desktop publishing-type things, how long has it been
since someone said "desktop publishing?"). So there's that.

Zoe, my computer, is about a year and a half now, and I've just ordered
the RAM upgrade that I promised myself that I'd get a year ago (never
buy RAM from Apple because it's cheaper to buy the same stuff cheaper on
your own, but then of course I never do because I'm lazy.) So that's on
it's way, and I think it'll make the whole operation run a lot more
smoothly. For instance, the computer I had for a couple years in high
school and my old iBook both had less ram than this one does right now,
for no real good reason. But I don't think that this entry is really
about hardware much, so we'll save that for another day.

And I think this has taken way too much time at this point, so I'll go
now, and I'll try and write again very soon ;)

Cheers, sam

