===========
born to run
===========

.. post:: 2008-03-17
   :author: tychoish

*Days on the Waitlist:* **6**

*Sweater Progress:* Sleeves: complete. Collar: complete. Hem facing:
f-ing *never ending*.

I'm listening to Bruce Springsteen's album "Born to Run" with some
obsession today. A dancing friend, whose living in someone else's house
this semester (and therefore with someone else's record collection) said
that she'd been listening to Springsteen lately, which she hadn't really
listened too much previously.

She described it as being "angry and about prison and fights and
ugliness. But it was much more melodic than she'd expected." Which I
think is the perfect description of his music, particularly of "Born to
Run" that I am so fond of. I think the way that his lyrics are so gritty
and the way that this contrasts with the way that the melodies are so
rich is what makes his music so appealing.

I said--somewhat flippantly--that there's something about this aesthetic
that people like William Gibson aspire to create: a wondrous, fantastic
image steeped in a very gritty hard fought sense of "reality." And
frankly, Bruce does it better than anything that I've ever seen of
Gibson's. But I am willing to stand corrected.

And though I enjoy this music, and frankly the attempt to ground fiction
in an non-utopian setting, despite my protests against "hipster
dystopianism" (Gibson, Doctorow, Sterling, etc.). I am even more admit
in the position that it's possible to write fiction that is high quality
and highly interesting that participates in the discourse of cultural
critique that isn't an aesthetic homage to grit and dystopia.

Leave it to Springsteen, really.

Actually, perhaps part of the reason that I dislike fiction which
embraces the point of view that in order to be "fresh" and "real" and
"engaging" you have write stories about gritty reality and the dark
underbelly of society is that this perspective has only the most
superficial understandings of class. This is, I think the result of the
"punk" part of the cyberpunk equation.

I've heard a couple of times that cyberpunk "failed" in part because
technology didn't develop in the way that everyone in the eighties
thought that it would, but more than that, because the cyberpunk
movement failed to attract "real" punks. Geeks in the eighties and
nineties turned into dot-com yuppies, not cyberpunks.

Regardless of who was attracted to the literature, cyberpunk relies
heavily on the image of the 'punk. Poor, outcast, and non-conforming,
the hero of the cyberpunk drama is able to wield a collection of skills
in a virtual world to combat large unregulated megacorporations in their
bid to do evil. The virtual world becomes a space to level out
difference where the battle becomes about skills and ingenuity, not
resources.

Which makes for a great story, the problem with this is that being a
punk is a luxury, and although at the time of the story the cyberpunk
characters are on the fringes of society, there's the distinct feeling
that despite their current situation, their class identity/background is
much more middle/upper class. Because being a cyberpunk requires time,
and skills, and money that is hard to come by if you're poor.

And Springsteen is able to write these songs that capture class in a
more realistic way, that captures the gritty reality without become
enrapt by "punk"-ness. And it's enjoyable.

Ok rant over. Or something. I hope that made sense.

Other news:

-  I hooked up a new external keyboard to my computer. Wow. It's really
nice, and I can type pretty damn well. It's a windows keyboard so
it's taking a few moments to learn where all the apple specific keys
map to. But it's nice to have a keyboard with full key return that
doesn't stick funny. My laptop keyboard is in bad shape. I should
just order the new computer, but it's a lot of change to drop at
once, particularly when things are so uncertain.
-  I have begun sending out feelers for summer and current employment.
-  The waitlist thing continues to be difficult and unchanging, so I'm
not writing very much about it. I'm trying to find the right balance
between: celebrating the distinct possibility that I'm going to be a
graduate student next year, the possibility that I will need to
seriously reconsider my purpose and position in the world as I try
and figure out "what next," and planning for the present so that I'm
not stuck perpetually waiting for "what happens next." But it's damn
hard.
-  Knitting: I need to spend some time knocking out this sweater.
Really. It's close, but I fear that if I go full boar, I'm going to
wreck my wrist, and that's not desirable at all. And I hereby promise
to not pass judgment or moan over this sweater until it's fully
blocked.

Onward and Upward!

