================
Bravo, Gay Night
================

.. post:: 2003-07-30
   :author: tychoish

Ok, So I did it. I spent two hours watching television, which as my
friens will almost certainly know is totally abnormal. But it was gay
television which at least as a sociological investigation was most
enjoyable.

Bullshit.

And the guys were really cute.

(There, I said it!)

Ok, and while I'm rambling, my history teacher bears a striking
resemblance to James, the Leading man on Boy Meets Boy. Very Weird, but
somehow hilarious.

They aren't very racially or socio-economically diverse, but then, it
fits the audience, and while it's hardly forgivable, I don't think it
makes the shows unwatchable. Also as Dave points out, it's a little
crewel that they guy doesn't know that there are straight guys mixed in
with the gay ones. But that of course flies in the face of stereotype
complaints because the stereotype line between gay and straight as
presented by the show is very blurred and I think that's good. Also the
fuzzy line between the butch and femme poles nicely flies in the face of
the very polarized definition that we can thank Will and Grace for.

I am a little disappointed that the show completely divides male
sexuality into gay and straight. (The loud laughing sound you all hear
in the background is Chris Knittel, excuse him please.) There are a lot
of bisexual folks out there, and I'm not sure how you could include it
in a television show with out invoking the porn principal, and all the
trash that goes along with that. Nine times out of ten people don't
really understand bisexuality. I mean on the surface it's really a
simple concept, but in application its a bit more difficult. Molly
(among others) has been known to say (and I agree with her) that
everyone (or at least 80% of people) are bisexual to some degree, thus I
think people tend to round to either one side or the other more often
than not, leaving the minority that identify as bisexual to some sort of
wasteland that they obviously don't disserve. I can't really suggest a
solution, but it's something that pop culture (and by pop culture I mean
pop culture as represented on television) is a long way from accepting.

The truth is that both of these shows are very Gay Male oriented,
completely neglecting to recognize bisexuals, transgender people, and
even lesbians. That's a real problem. You know shows like "Will and
Grace" made it with gay characters, but when you think about it there
aren't even Lesbians on TV, aside from the two on Queer as Folk, and the
new Showtime show forthcoming, unless I'm missing something. So while
I'm really impressed with the hunky wonderfulness that I'm starting to
see, it's only a start.

While I think Boy Meets Boy is my favorite of the two, Queer Eye for the
Straight Guy is really interesting. It's witty, cute, and a lot of fun
(this is television after all, so we're not looking for a great deal of
depth). The fashion guy annoys me to no end, and the hair guy is a bit
not cool, and I think the culture guy is really great as is the food
guy, and the rest of it's a wash. This kinda show makes me feel like I'm
a slacker for not having such a chic and perfectly styled life, but then
I realized that it doesn't matter that much and all it well.

The truth is that, as far as gay decorating shows go, I really much
rather watch Christopher Lowell of the discovery channel. (Paula's
description: "He's so flaming I'm surprised that his studio hasn't burnt
down.") Funny, but very true.

Well there you have it, I'd be interested to hear your
reactions.Update:Another thing. I found the Fag Hag character to be
bossy and pushy and just a general not good thing. The host was also
trying to hard for the Dolly Parton look and even people who can pull it
off don't look prety. But thankfully they weren't around too much.

If it were me I would have brought a lesbian, becasue I'm wierd like
that, or I would have brought another guy, which would have made it
wierd a little....

Oh, and all of the previews showed a lot of guy-guy smooching, and this
episode didn't have any, and I was disapoined by that, a lot. All the
good stuff from the previews weren't in this one, and I'm probably not
going to see any more unless I get bored and someone Kazza's it, or it's
on next week while I'm doing the tour.

Cheers

