===================
Character Synthesis
===================

.. post:: 2002-12-21
   :author: tychoish

(**Editor's Note:**\ Here's another blast from the past that will be a
test entry until we get things working the way they should. Thanks for
your patience, or tollerance.)

I haven't given you updates on the creative side of my life in a while;
too long. Truthfully you've been getting select recycled journal entries
from a journal writing exercise that I've been doing for school for the
past couple of months. Sadly, that assignment has ended, or at least
morphed into a readers response kind of deal, and unless you all really
want my thoughts on Miss Julie, Hedda Gabler, M. Butterfly, Invisible
Man, The Great Gatsby, Madame Bovary, The Old Man and the Sea, Heart of
Darkness, Billy Buddóor have masochist tendenciesóI won't be posting
these. (Yes that is my reading list for the rest of this academic year,
and as I think about it you might get a few tirades about Herman
Melville and Earnest Hemingway just 'cause I don't particularly care for
them.)

By the second of September when my classes started the word count on
Circle Games was at 42,000 words. My goal has been to write 1,000 words
a week on this project, and I've been successful and the word count is
now at 52,000; and by the end of the weekend I hope to have 54,000 done
because of the holiday. The story is progressing in a fabulous sort of
way and even though I have 30-40,000 words left to write the end is
within sight and I feel confident that I'll finish this by the goal time
of May 19th which just happens to be my birthday. Fancy that!

Right now, I'm working on character syntheses for an outline that I also
hope to have completed by May 19th so that I can draft on it while I
work on the Circle Games revisions. While I do have somewhat extensive
outlines and notes for Circle Games, the process of developing the story
for Circle Games happened differently, and I suppose a little background
is necessary.

In august of 2002 I started to write on a project that I called "Circle
Games" I didn't have an outline and I didn't really have a full idea of
where the story was going to go. I did know who most of the characters
were going to be, and I did know that the story stared on the perfect
autumn day. I was younger, I thought was damn good, and I thought didn't
need no stinkin' outlines.

I think I wrote a total of 3,000 words on that attempt before school
started and I got so caught up in that work, that I was never able to
pick that draft up again. Then, at some point the plot fleshed itself
out and my visions of the book completely changed. My father said
something to me that inspired a creative theme and message, and it
started to feel like something real instead of something hopelessly
pathetic. The problem was that it is really impossible to start a novel
project when you have other commitments; because for a few weeks at
least, you don't do much else.

I don't know what clicked but somehow without really noticing the note
book that I had been carrying around with me for whenever the
inspiration struck filled quickly with a very extensive outline. The
only things I really remember from the outline process is that I was
sitting at my usual spot in the cafeteria with a shiny new yellow or
green 10 dollar fountain pen that had black ink, that might have been
borrowed come to think of it, writing the physical/technical specs for
the story (hyperspace, guns, communications devices, deck overviews and
design principals for the ships), and then as I was finishing I remember
talking the whole plot over with my father, who remains the only person
other than me to know the outcome of the story and the full meaning of
the title.

I finished the outline around the time of my birthday in 2002 and had
about six weeks before school would be out and I would be able to start
on the draft, which at that time I thought could finish by the time
school started in September. I spent this time writing the character
brainstormings and profiles, social and cultural histories, and several
types of plot summaries. When school let out I started this draft, and I
think the rest is history, more or less.

The end result of all this is that by the time I started the outline I
already knew all of the characters fairly well, and I knew the basic
turns of the plot pretty well. It helps that a generous census of
characters runs at about fifteen, and the plot isn't terribly
complicated; and thus the outlining process was fairly painless.

The next outlining project is turning out to be very different because I
don't have any story or character cast to start with. Everything is new;
and that's a little scary and intimidating in equal measure. Right now,
I'm busy doing all of those things that I did after I had finished the
outline project: the character profiles, basic tech/design specs, the
thematic design, and plans for literary effects. We'll see how things
develop, and there'll be updates as this project progresses.

