=============
Digital Video
=============

.. post:: 2007-05-17
   :author: tychoish

I have a confession: I'm really bad at watching television. Well not
really. I'm just too good at it. For most of my life I haven't grown up
around a television, and so I'm not used to having TVs on, so when they
are on I tend to give them my undivided attention, which is a deviation
from the cultural norm where television becomes a backdrop to life.
Actually the truth is that the family television spent a few years in my
room, because there was space for it there, and at most I watched a
couple of SF shows when they aired every week but there were periods
where I wouldn't turn it on for *months*.

Because of this, I really enjoy television, but these days I watch
almost all of my television on my computer, usually while I knit. I also
feel as if this puts me in a unique position think about the fate of
video/film in light of the internet. So as customary for me here on
TealArt, I'm going muse at whim! So there!

I remember collecting digital videos, usually ripped from VHS recordings
of television broadcasts with commercials edited out from way back when
(long before bit torrent). It wasn't feasible for mass consumption
because the files were huge, and bandwidth was narrow, but with the
broadening of bandwidth, and better compression schemes, to mention
nothing of phenomenal like YouTube, iTunes, pod-casting 'the web has
become much more amenable to video. This of course changes the way that
we interact with video content. No longer do we have to watch the
content on demand, or rent physical disks, or go to a theater, but
rather download and watch, more or less at whim.

In the end, I think that this makes us more active consumers of
television, because counter to conventions, watching TV is really an
activity in itself worth doing, rather than something that we
half-expect ourselves to be doing other things during. This is
compounded by the fact that while bandwidth is wider today than it was
even 3 years ago, a "hour long" (40-45mins) television show can still
take several hours to download, especially at higher qualities. So
independent productions tend to be significantly shorter which means
that the kind of purposeful watching doesn't take as much time. The
downside is that dramatic video hasn't really found a home on the
internet outside of the traditional media via iTunes, which doesn't
really change the model very much.

With the video iPods and the apple TV (but also the Zune and PSP, I
suppose,) it's become possible for digital video's to become more
accessible, clearly portable, in ways that traditional television has
never been able to be. I wonder how the on-demand aspects will interact
with the portable aspect of contemporary digital video. I'd also think
that there's a space here for audio only content, I can't imagine that
video podcasting, would ever really present a challenge to audio
podcasting (much less the textual blog,) in the same way that TV really
superseded radio.

New technologies and media consumption practices take time to mature and
grow, and I think it'll be interesting to see what happens in the next
couple of years. Will YouTube begin to have longer and more substantive
content? Will we be able to get more content into smaller packages? Will
production costs go down so that there will be more content avilable?
And of course the question that lingers in the back of a lot of people's
minds, how will the money work out? I don't have answers, I just know
that it'll be interesting.

best, tycho

