====
dpns
====

.. post:: 2008-03-06
   :author: tychoish

-  Still no news. There could be a call tonight, I suppose. I told
myself that I was going to write an email to ping them, and at least
see what was going on, but it's not like they're going to forget to
admit people, so I'm--at least for now--going with the stoic
approach.
-  My sleeve from hell has done some progressing. I have 50 some rounds
left, and there are only 80-ish stitches left, which is a good thing
indeed. The title of this post refers to the fact that I just
switched to double pointed needles (dpns) on the sleeve.

-  And then there is, you know, the second sleeve. I was going to put
a cuff on this one, but it's not needed at all, so that's nice.

-  I've been watching Criminal Minds, a trashy CBS procedural. I swear
to you, if they made a space opera procedural (as opposed to a space
opera adventure show), I think it would be amazing. I should write
more about my love for procedurals. Also, re: Criminal Minds I'm not
complaining about Thomas Gibson. Heh. Predictable. I'm so
predictable.
-  I'm taking a break before I watch the last Tales of the City videos.
It's good for me, but it's sort of cathartic, and that isn't
particularly pleasant.
-  In a turn that I'm sure will surprise no one, giving myself a chill
out period before I make the computer order has tempered my perceived
need. On the other hand I've just been refreshing three tabs in
safari and watching tv with the computer this week. I still might
order when I get word from grad programs, because I'd rather make the
transition now, when I'm not doing any sort of production work,
rather than in August or November when there will be other things
going on in my life.
-  I finished a pair of socks and was able to graft the socks with some
skill. Though I without doubt knit an extra round on the second sock
at the toe. I don't think it will change things, so I'll probably
leave it, but you know, I might. I'll probably not work on socks
intently until/if I run out of yarn on this sweater and have to wait
for an extra skein to arrive.
-  I've started to think about my next sweater, I'm excited. Details
forthcoming, maybe.
-  I'm thinking about writing, even if I'm not actually coherent enough
to do it, and I haven't been able to even think about that recently,
so that's fun. Really fun.
-  There's a new Torchwood. I'm going to be really pissed in three weeks
when they run out of episodes for this season and I have to wait till
January 2009 for more. Sigh. Right now I'm happy.
-  I have to work today. I'm down to working about four days a month in
addition to teaching a couple of classes. But I don't have to go in
for a while.

Be in touch!

--ty

