=========
Fa Sol La
=========

.. post:: 2009-07-06
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: sacred-harp

I've developed a new recreational activity. As if I needed another one.

I did a little shape note singing at the Morris Dance gathering, as I
usually do, but this year something clicked. I'm not sure exactly what
it was: I'd been singing a lot that weekend and my ears were used to
listening to and picking out harmonies, my voice was a bit tired (and
thus a more comfortable bass), I was sitting directly behind an
incredibly powerful base. Any one of or all of these things coincided to
produce a really amazing experience, and one where I was able to *feel*
the music. It was amazing

--------------

I should break in and say that I'm not an incredibly musical person, and
music/singing isn't something that I did very much of growing up. I
think teaching people (particularly boys) how to listen, how to sing,
and how to listen for harmonies is incredibly difficult, and not
something--certainly--that I was ever exposed to as a kid.

I played Clarinet in middle school (and was in the 4th grade choir,) and
while I was able to do *ok*, I never developed an *instinct* for it, I
didn't really ever figure out how to *listen*.

In high school I started doing the dancing (International folk dance,
Morris Dance, Contra/etc.) and that worked for me. I could *feel* the
dance, the beat, the music, and I was able to learn the grace and
mechanics after a few months. It was amazing, finally to have away to
have "an ecstatic experience of the music."

--------------

A friend of mine from dancing described shape note singing, as "singing
for people who don't dance," because I think in a lot of ways, shape
note singing is more like dancing than it is to other musical forms:

-  Shape not singing is participatory: like folk dance, it's meant to be
done rather than watched. The music is arranged and harmonized in
such away that makes it hard to record accurately (the melody is in
the middle of the harmonic range rather than on the top,) and it's
sung loudly by large groups of people, and singers arrange themselves
facing each other so the closer you are to the middle the better you
can hear.

-  There's a "pulsing" feeling that you can sort of feel in your gut
when you're doing it "right."

-  The shapes provide a way for people without classical training to
understand and participate in singing, in the same way that folk
dancers introduce a choreographical short-hand to teach people how to
dance without requiring formal training.

-  It's totally an ecstatic experience, and I've never left a signing
without a little bit of a "singing buzz"

--------------

So this being said, this shape note singing thing is incredibly weird
for me. Perhaps the weirdest thing I've done to date, which is saying a
lot giving the knitting and the Morris dancing.

Shape note music is very definitely in the category of: Spiritual Music
from the American Protestant Tradition. The songs are all hymns many
signings--the best ones really--have opening/closing/recess prayers and
the best places for signings are inevitably churches (high ceilings,
limited upholstery).

And here I am, this dweeby Jewish guy, from a family that isn't
(historically/traditionally, on either side) particularly religious (ie.
theistic) or observant. My own religious/spiritual views range from:
"limited" to "existential/queer," and it's not something I loose a lot
of sleep/attention over.

--------------

I called a song at the last singing, Hallelujah from the '91 Denison
(Red) book (forget the number at the moment; it's a popular one). And
the leader asked which verses I wanted to sing.

Dude. I haven't a clue.

The verses are neigh on irrelevant for me. In a strange way, what I
think of as the ecstatic experience of the music, the "singing buzz," is
what a lot of people think of as the "spiritual" aspect of a singing.
And for me it has more to do with the "space" and the moment and less to
do with G-d. But that's just me.

We sang, at M.N.'s suggestion 1 and 4. But it was a good song, we could
have sung 'em all, and I wouldn't have cared one bit.

--------------

In any case, the one thing I know for sure is that I want to sing more
often.

