=============
Ideal Sweater
=============

.. post:: 2011-07-19
   :author: tychoish

I've mentioned a few times that I've been doing more knitting
recently. Nothing for the most part to get excited about. But, now
that I have a bit more free time its became apparent that I can't
write *all the time* and it's good to have something to do with my
hands when other things require a bit of extra attention. 

An explanation of my current knitting requires a bit of a back
story. There always is and I think that is part of the joy.

The last sweater I started during college is probably the best one
I've ever made. This isn't to say that it's the most impressive, or
that it took me the longest, or was the most complicated, or was the
most striking, or the had simplest pattern. No. If I had a dozen of
this sweater, I'd wear them constantly all winter. It's warm without
being unbearably warm except during the coldest week of the year. The
sleeves are big enough to support layering without weird bunching. The
sweater fits me without being too tight or too baggy. It looks great
over long sleeve t-shirts and oxfords. And it was a lot of fun to
knit, both because of the yarn (Harrisvile Shetland,) and the pattern
(a modified snowflake design of Swedish inspiration.) 

A lot of the sweaters I knit after that were too complicated: I was
trying to show off my knitting prowess, or I was experimenting with
different yarns. In any case, I've come to the following conclusion:

- Two color stranded patterns are the best kind of pattern. The
  pattern affects the shape of the knitting stitches (in a good way!)
  and the drape of the eventual fabric, in a way that provides a bit
  more structure. If you make the right design decisions for the
  pattern itself, the act of knitting becomes so much more captivating
  and rhythmic.

- The best neck lines are basically crew necks, but are open to
  mid-chest like polo or henley shirts. I don't tend to put button
  holes or clasps and just leave them open. The effect on the sweaters
  is that they are wearable over any kind of shirt (unlike v-neck
  sweaters) and are well ventilated (unlike unmodified crew neck
  sweaters.) I tend to leave the front corners of the collar squared
  and unmodified, but they can be rounded.

- I've gone back and forth on this a bit, but now, I'm firmly of the
  opinion that turned hems are better on stranded garments than
  corrugated ribbing. Knit a hem facing, purl two rounds, and then
  start the pattern, and join the hem at the appropriate
  moment. Done. Corrugated ribbing is really appealing, but it's not
  really ribbing, and it's very *loud*, on finished garments.

- After much experimentation with different shapes, I've decided that
  plain old drop-shouldered fisherman-style shaped sweaters are the
  only way to go. I've gotten pretty good at making saddle shoulders,
  set in sleeves, modified drop shoulders, and pretty much anything
  else. But at the end of the day I have a chest of funny looking
  shoulders that I don't really wear.

- Patterns need to draw the eyes up along vertical lines, which is
  incredibly flattering on most people's bodies and is more fun to
  knit because panels of pattern can interact in cool ways up and down
  and across the sweater.I've been in a Swedish/Scandinavian kick for
  a while now, and have been working on variations on a ~26 row
  snowflake pattern. 

- Shetland yarn is really the best yarn in the world. It's robust
  without being too itchy, and it doesn't pill. I like Harrisvile's
  selection because you can buy the yarn on cones, it's consistent,
  and I think they have enough colors.

So I'm making more sweaters like this. 
