===================
Interview Game: Sam
===================

.. post:: 2003-08-26
   :author: tychoish

1. Leave a comment, saying you want to be interviewed.

2. I will respond; I'll ask you five questions.

3. You'll update your website with my five questions, and your five
answers.

4. You'll include this explanation.

5. You'll ask other people five questions when they want to be
interviewed.

My questions are from Amy of Domesticat.net. Her questions and answers
are archived on her site as well.

--------------

1. Is art still relevant in American society?

I think contemporary art is just as relevant in contemporary society as
it's always been, which is to say, not terribly relevant. Art reflects
society, but I think art is a fairly passive reflection of society, so
in that respect I think Art remains relevant to society.

2. Dogs, cats, ferrets, or fish? Defend your answer.

Cats. Duh. Dogs are too dependent and downright annoying, though I do
think there are some pretty neat little dogs. Cuddling fish isn't
possible, and if I wanted something pretty to look at I'd by a painting
or download a screen saver. I have nothing opposed to ferrets or other
rodent like creatures, but they don't match up to cats. I like cats,
because they're great company, and entertainment, and they take care of
themselves mostly, I also enjoy the fact that while they're fiercely
independent, they also seem to bond well with people, which is a nice
quality for a pet.

I suppose I should say something about how the cats made me say that,
but I can't think of a clever way of saying that, so I'll leave that to
your imagination.

3. What books, when you finished the last page, left you a significantly
different person than you were when you started reading them? Why?
What were the changes?

To answer this question completely I'd probably have to spend a few
years, so I'm just going to give some of the more recent highlights.

Reading the last page of "The Great Gatsby" changed me and how I think
about my writing interests. The rest of the book was kind of iffy as for
it's affect on me, but those famous last words really did something for
me.

When I read Robert Heinlein's "Stranger in A Strange Land," I learned
what science fiction was capable of and what "Speculative Fiction"
really means, and given that I'm a more or less a self identified SF
writer, that was really important. I think I have similar feelings
towards Asimov's Foundation Trilogy, but Stranger affected me more I
think.

While I've never read one of his books (because it's much better to
listen to him read his books) I think David Sedaris has had a profound
impact of me. He's funny and fun, but he's also brutally honest, and can
talk about things that I could never talk about and make people laugh
the way he does. I listened to the full length version of the "Santa
Land Diaries" and afterwards I've known that that approach to writing
stories and anecdotes is something I desperately need to adopt.

Armistead Maupin's "Tales of the City" books have shown me how format,
amazing stories, and powerful characters can blend perfectly together.
As a result I felt more connected to queer history/culture. It also gave
me an interesting, and new perspective about the AIDS crisis, which I
hadn't had before (that's the last too books in particular).

That brings me to my reading of the first Angles in America Play by Tony
Kushner, which as of right now is the most amazing piece of prose I've
ever read. It's powerful; the production style really works with the
subject matter. The play was the most complete look at AIDS and all of
it's effects, and I was virtually reduced to tears by the last page.

4. The weblogging world is fascinated with the idea of being able to dip
into the lives of strangers. Is it possible to truly get to know
someone through this particular format?

If you fire up your browser and see the front page of a blog and snoop
around a little, you're going to see a little window into the life of a
stranger, and this kind of blog 'browsing' may allow you to get to know
someone, in most cases this picture is incomplete. It is after all hard
to get to know someone on a couple of web pages, (unless the person is
really daft).

On the other hand if you've read the entire body of a person's work on
the web, you can start to get a feeling about someone. There's a lot of
"reading inbetween the lines," and I must admit that there are few
people whose blogs I read that I don't chat/correspond with, so I
suppose that skews things a bit. People are such complicated creatures
that it's hard to *really* get to know them in any format, but I think
it can be done. (Is it cheating if you chat/correspond with people whose
blog you read?)

5. Would you ever attend dragon\*con? If you would, what appeals to you?
If not, why not?

I think I would if I could work out all the logistics. I'm a huge
Babylon 5 fan (it's the commonality that brought Chris Knittel and Paula
Forbes to TealArt in the first place). I'm also really kind of big into
Star Wars, which I'm almost embarrassed to admit, but alas it's the
truth. So things relating to either of those fascinations would be
pretty high on my list. Also as a writer/fiction buff, the stuff
relating to that would be really interesting. The Rocky Horror
showing(s) would also get my attention. That's the main stuff, and
probably only the tip of the ice burg.

