=============
Journal Entry
=============

.. post:: 2009-03-03
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: journal

Ok, I've not done a "journal" post n a while, and I think one is long
due. It's been a wild week (or two) in the life of tycho, and I think
without the opportunity to parse through some recent events:

1.  I've been ferrying back between home and my grandmother's about
twice a week for, what seems like a few weeks. Everything is fine,
and she's doing very well (and reading the blog again! everyone say
hi!), but it's jarring if nothing else. I think I'm home for the
better part of a week this time, and I'm slipping back into getting
things done. Though, being home (and ready to leave) isn't exactly
restful, particularly when so many things need doing at home. So
many things.

2.  I've not been writing very much. All the unsettledness seems to mean
that I'm a total mess. I've written (and semi-abandoned) lots of
blog posts, which never take that much concentration usually. I'm in
the middle of reoutlining the novel project and have been on hiatus
with that as a result. I'm convinced that a couple of hours should
be able to get me back on to track with that, and jump starting that
project will help revive my flagging conentration/focus.

3.  I finished the shawl for my grandmother (I might have mentioned
that) and have started working on another shawl. There's a lot of
lace in my future, but I do want to knit sweaters more/again. The
good news is that I'm actually knitting stuff. So "woot!" for a
project that isn't really going by the wayside.

4.  I'm not, as I thought, going to Drupal Con. Given all of my travels
and responsibilities here, it just wasn't feasible. I'm
disappointed, but I'm sure it was the right thing, as taking one of
the balls out of the air lead to no small amount of relief.

5.  I'm finally reading at a pace that I find acceptable. I'll write a
post about this at some point, but I've finally managed to figure
out a way to prioritize reading in a way that lets me get it done.
My pile hasn't started to dwindle very much, but I can imagine that
I'll be able to make progress. I'm also finally into new territory
with the Robinson "Mars books" and am enjoying it. There's something
very similar about the way we approach a story that I *really* like,
and a lot of things that he (not surprisingly) pulls off much more
effectively than I am. It's good stuff.

6.  While I switched to brewing tea loosely many months ago, these days
I'm not using any fancy brew pots, opting for more traditional
infusers and strainers, which seem easier to manage. I've discovered
that I need some sort of thermos (as my 16 oz. travel mug isn't
enough for a morning out.) and I'd like to get a 40 oz tea pot with
a built in strainer/doodad, but I'm good for now unless I see a deal
that can't be missed.

7.  Battlestar Galactica continues to boggle my mind in a good way. I
continue to be really impressed with how the story progresses, the
kind of science fiction that they're doing, and the quality of
*everything*. I'm, typically, a bit sad about the end, and I've been
hording and watching in 2-3 episode chunks, but I think in the long
run it's a good thing that the show is going out on such a good
note, and I think seeing (parts?) of the production team go in to do
different things will be much more powerful than getting another
couple of seasons of BSG as we know it now. As much as I hate to
admit that.

8.  I did some things along the lines of reconfiguring my blackberry, to
reprogram some of the buttons along the side, and I've started to
use a private emaill address that I set up to take notes on the fly.
I should probably begin to figure out how to do some sort of
procmail filtering something or other to get these notes into
something in my org-mode files. Later. In general, I'm really
pleased with how the phone is working out, even if I still need to
get the music/ring tone situation sorted out, but I'm lazy.

9.  I've been, as I can, going for long-ish walks every day. I'll write
about this, eventually, but I think it's been really good for
clearing my mind and working. It'll also be nice to be in a little
better shape before the dancing season really picks up: stamina and
all. If I can convince myself that this is a habit worth keeping,
and I buy tennis shoes (for the first time in... ten or 12 years,
yay for boots and clogs.) I'm considering joining a gym, in hopes of
being able to do weight stuff and being able to do lower impact
aerobic stuff. As a skinny geek, whose been moderately active
(dancing) heretofore, this whole exercise thing is quite strange and
intimidating. There's all kind of stuff that I don't know at all.
Very strange.

10. I'm rejigging my family's computers this week. I tried to explain
what needs to be done, but failed. Basically what I need to do
centers around: copying a lot of stuff off of a computer, getting
ipod syncing working with linux, and then figuring out a creative
solution for getting either getting the audio signal from the
office, to the living room without wires, or getting the network to
a computer that doesn't have wireless. Additional challenges
include: remote control of the jukebox machine player using
laptops/cellphones (proto home automation), and possibilities for
podcast fetching that don't necessarily involve the ipod software
(thinking about using my phone for this). Thoughts on any of these
issues would be great.

Sorry for the eccentricity of this post, and my posting this week, I'm
almost back on track.

Outward and Onward!

