================
Knitting a Shawl
================

.. post:: 2009-01-26
   :author: tychoish

So I've written about current projects on this blog, and I think every
knitting project that I've talked about thus far I haven't yet finished.
In a year or more. Rather than disappoint, I have another post about a
new knitting project, but it comes with a bit of a story. Sorry to the
members of the queer-knit-list, as this will be something of an old
story.

--------------

In the summer of 2005 I lived in Kansas City with my grandmother. It was
after my first year in college, and it was a great experience. I got a
job in a yarn store, I knit a lot, and it was a great experience. I'm an
only grandchild on that side of the family, and I think it was a really
good experience. That spring-into summer I was really big into knitting
shawls, and I think from that April-to-August I think I made 5 fairly
large Pi Shawls. (I think I also made two or three sweaters during this
period as well, it was intense). One of the Pi shawls I made was a red
one out of sport-weight alpaca, and my grandmother took to it like a
fish to water.

I should comment on the shawl before I go any further. It's bright red.
Really bright read. I think "stop-sign" or "fire-truck" begins to
capture it. It's also fairly heavy as a shawl. While fingering weight
makes a nice shawl, I'm often of the opinion that sport weight is a bit
too heavy for shawls. Something about drape or heft. I'm not sure. To
complicate matters, I attempted to do a knit and purl pattern (don't
ask). Words to the wise: texture in alpaca doesn't work because the
fabric is too limp, and furthermore texture in shawls that are knitted
loosely doesn't work. I also attempted at some point to do big
lace-diamonds, which I can't explain or justify. The biggest error,
however, is the fact that I ran out of yarn before the shawl was done,
and rather than pick out the cast off, I pulled out the previous few
rounds and used that yarn to finish off the bind off. So there's kind of
a notch missing out of one part of the shawl.

So it's an odd object.

The second part speaks to my grandmother. Her style for many years has
been to wear jackets and shirts with nice patterns in the blue-purple
spectrum over black slacks. In short, not very "grandmotherly," for
years and years. A year ago, I spent a couple of weeks with her, after
she had a knee problem (fractured knee cap!) and she was wearing a brace
and she dug out a skirt because her pants wouldn't fit over the knee
brace, and it was clear that the skirt was at least as awkward as the
knee brace for her. As I think about it I don't think it would be
unreasonable to suggest that she doesn't own any (other) objects of red
clothing.

So she took this shawl with her every where. To the movies, to
restaurants, on vacation. Because like any good shawl, it was just the
right thing to provide easy and accessible warmth. Everywhere.

--------------

I've not blogged a lot about this, but it's been a tough year for her
(and us as well). The aforementioned broken knee cap, were the last
straw for those knees, and she decided that it was finally the right
time to do knee replacements--having previously decided that she was too
busy to take the time to get her knees replaced. Knee replacements are
hard, and this was complicated by the need to do a repair on the second
one (which was even harder to recover from, for a lot of reasons). I've
been back and forth between the city she lives in and the city I live in
at least 5 times this year (and my father has done the trip about as
much). Thankfully things are looking up, and she's set to go back home
(from rehab) right as rain in a bit less than a month.

I decided a couple of weeks ago, that I really ought to make an updated
shawl for her. I chose alpaca, this time in light and dark gray that I
had in the stash, and rather than do a pattern, I'm just knitting it
plain, with a stripe of light gray before the end. I'm even doing
increases via the "make one by knitting into the front and back of the
stitch" method, rather than yarn overs (so that there's really no open
work in the shawl). And I've been planning so this time

I showed her the work in progress a few weeks ago when I went for a
visit and she seemed quite impressed. So I trust the final product will
go over well. The knitting has been really pretty quick. I worked pretty
steady the first week, and I've been pretty consistent about it the past
few weeks, but not quite as steady. I expect that I'll be done in
another couple of weeks. And of course, I'll post pictures. Right now it
looks kinda like a gray sack/awkward beret. I'll spare you, for now. But
we'll be in touch.

Onward and Upward!

