==========
Live First
==========

.. post:: 2004-05-13
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: journal

I've talked about this before, but it seems like a perfect explanation
for my recent absence from the pages of TealArt.com.

My good blogging friend and often-mentor, Amy, said this thing a while
ago that really stuck: Live first, first blog second. Sure it's not
original, but I really liked the way she said it. Something about not
writing about what might be, or what could be, what's going to be. Not
jinxing things. That blogging in the way she (and TealArt does
occasionally) does it is about recording things after they happen, not
while they happen.

The kind of content that TealArt presents doesn't exploit the instant
kind of media that most blogs are known for. While we may not proofread,
or plan or rhetoric extensively, this isn't a blog the current
construction of that term, it's more like some of the sites that were
around a few years ago (like Amy, and an earlier incarnation of Noah's
work.) I have to keep reminding myself, that although TealArt hasn't
"made it big" in the blog world, Chris and I have been at this for a
long time.

While I didn't quite set out to write a 'history of blogging essay' or a
commentary on the current state of TealArt I guess I have one more point
about this. I know that the categories system needs some serious
revision. The comments only work sporadically, I've found. And there's a
new design desperately needed. And the links/quote blogs need better
integration with the main log. And, probably most importantly, we're
going to try and play with the template to lighten/soften the tone/mood.
But... My recent computer problems haven't completely resolved. I'm
using an old iMac with OS 8.1 on it. So until I get a real working
computer that will allow me to do the work that I need, things are going
to stay the way they are. Sorry about this.

But what I started writing this post about:

Today I took the second to last test for my International Baccalaureate
Diploma. There are two papers (technically two tests), back to back in a
week. So I'm basically done. Yes. You heard that right. Wow. I thought
it was weird to be "almost done" well actually being done is even
weirder. Despite the fact that I'm dead tired and my brain feels
completely fried I feel inexplicably liberated. It's awesome. It's also
the story of my life, and while I just thought about saying "Given the
choice, I'll never do something like that again."

And then I realized, that of course I'd do something like that in an
instant. That's part of my personality and who I am. Lets hope, I'll get
better at managing my resources and my life. I can only hope.

In any case, that's what I've been doing for the past month. Living,
perhaps not what I'd ideally like to spending my life doing, but
defiantly something that I needed to just live through. So I'm done with
that, and while there's always next time, I'm hoping I got some time
before next time gets here.

In slightly other news, there's queer stuff happening at school. It's a
good thing I think, predicted, and a bit old. I'm not totally sure of
what to make of it just now, but I think I'll probably (you had to
expect it) muse a bit about this, I want to see if I can get into some
more stuff soon. Stay tuned.

