==========
loose ends
==========

.. post:: 2008-03-23
   :author: tychoish

I've been knitting a lot. I still don't have pictures, but I do have
stories. I don't quite have 1000 words of stories, but these few hundred
will probably come close.

I finished sewing up the hem and the sweater is blocking downstairs.
There's a little bit of the hem which I'm a little disappointed with,
but these things happen, and I'm not that worried that it will
negatively affect much. I'm still undecided about closure. I think I'll
probably due with out for any wearing that it gets this year, and make a
mega-order of zippers in about a month if I can't find a source of good
zippers locally. This sweater feels like it would proably work alright
with some simple black bobble-esque buttons, so I might make little
I-cord button hole tabs if it came to that.

It's still damp so we'll have to wait a while to get good pictures.

I've also been a knitting fiend of late, working on the sleeves of my
sweater, which I've been working on seriously for almost a week, and
will finish the end of the second sleeve this evening in all likely
hood. I can't wait to start knitting on the body of a sweater again,
particularly given that when I'm done with the body of this sweater, I'm
done with it, because the sleeves are already done.

The problems with my knitting queue are done. Done! I can resume my
normal, if a bit obsessive, knitting life, without having to drag myself
through projects that I don't really want to work on, and I can look
forward to the next project with hope and anticipation without guilt.

Speaking of my queue, just like my mother's self imposed goal/project of
knitting ten pairs of socks before memorial day, I'm setting a goal of
knitting *14 Sweaters by December 31st 2009*. Which is a little bit less
than a sweater every six weeks. On average.

Which is about my common rate of progress, assuming I'm not knitting
huge sweaters at fine gauges like I've been doing this year. I do a
stranded sweater that fits me at like 8 stitches to the inch, in six
weeks, and I don't think I'll just be making stranded sweaters either.
So all should work out. This goal, like my moms goal, is really not a
rush, but more like an excuse to spend my time (and knitting budget) on
projects that I genuinely want to work on. **I love making sweaters,**
and would be happy to just keep knitting sweaters and nothing else. Here
are some other ground rules that I'm considering as part of my
challenge:

- Sweaters started before the goal was established count when they're
  finished. So the sweater I'm working on now, and the fine gauge gray
  sweater count when they're finished, even though some percentage of
  the knitting occurred before I've started.
- The next 144 rounds of the Pi shawl I'm working on on size zero's
  would count as a sweater, and if it's not done at that point, the
  remainder of the shawl will also count as it's own sweater. I don't
  expect to be working on this, however.
- At least three quarters of the sweaters I make should be my own
  designs and/or things that I could publish as my own. Preferably
  more.

Sounds fun.

I've also worked out what yarn/kinds of patterns I intend to make for
the next eight sweaters I want to make. Which is also incredibly
exciting, I have stash yarn enough for two sweaters, and i think I have
leftovers enough so that I can knit 3 sweaters only buying 4 cones of
yarn (the last two sweaters I've made I've bought 4 cones each, which
while necessary, has contributed to my leftover shelf greatly.) Also
surprisingly, I have, on my list, five yarns/sweaters that I want to
make that are medium weight single color patters/designs/ideas. I'm
thinking that it's about time for me to suck it up and knit cable work.

Anyway, hope you're having a good goyeshe yantif, I should go
knit/write, I'll be in touch.

Onward and Upward!
