=========
Motivated
=========

.. post:: 2003-07-12
   :author: tychoish

I've realized something about my writing, something that I'm not exactly
happy about, but something that I think I can deal with. It's also
something that I think, that by realizing what the problem is, I'll be
able to work around it.

So what is it already?

All of my characters in Circle Games are motivated by loyalty. The irony
that makes the story interesting in my opinion is that they're motivated
by loyalty to each other, except in a couple of cases (the bad guys
mainly) when they're motivated by loyalty to themselves. Duty and
loyalty are fine motivating factors, and they may be entangled with
love, but they aren't love. And I think the story of CG works with this
limitation and really takes advantage of the characters as they are.
This is the benefit of creating characters before the story, which was
how the development of Circle Games happened.

Another Round happened differently, for the most part; and for better or
for worse, I have a character who must be motivated out of love. I think
when I wrote the outline I envisioned him as having loyalty to his
ideals, but as I get to know him better I realize that he has to operate
(as stupid as it might sound) out of shear love. This makes him much
more difficult to write because I'm not sure how to write characters in
this mode. It's certainly a reflection of myself, and as I noted to
Paula last night, all of my characters don't relax and have the guard up
most of the time.

I wrote one short story, probably the single best work I've gotten out
yet, that's seven pages or so, and I think it really captures love or
something reasonably close. The problem is that in seven pages,
characters needn't be motivated to do anything other than sit on a park
bench and watch what's going on around them, which is exactly what this
character does. I wrote this particular story in my voice which for all
of the poor stylistic implications, seems to be effective in such
formats.

This is something that I'll likely wrestle with for quite some time, but
I think with a little work, my fiction won't suffer terribly. I do fear
that someone's going to hand Circle Games back to me and tells me that
there's something fundamentally wrong with the way the characters are
developed. But then I fear that I'm going to get a marked up manuscript
and someone's going to tell me that there are huge structural holes in
it, but that's just part of the cycle I suppose.

--------------

Another Round is a great project with a lot of potential. Writing it is
going to be hard though. Really hard. I can see it now, but I can also
see that I'll get it done. I'm embarking on it just as I realize that
I'm loosening my interest in science fiction, and as I realize that I'm
not quite ready for the land of contemporary/mainstream fiction. Another
Round is an epic tale (sans hero), told basically in the form of a three
act play (it's prose though), which I hope is unique.

Perhaps it'll take more than nine months, and actually I hope it takes
more than nine months, because I want to have a long term project that
last me the whole school year. I also know that I want to work on other
projects, other fiction things, so I'm probably going to dedicate a
little bit of my energy this summer to getting outlines and plans ready
for other projects that I can work on during the year.

I don't want to put it down and forget about it and lose rhythm, but I
don't think that's possible, if I can get past chapter six, which is
still a ways off (as long as I'm done with part one, and have a little
bit of part two), then I'll be safe. Part one could, in theory stand
alone. It's integral to the story, and it couldn't be cut out, but the
plot changes gears there, and once into part two, it'll live for sure.

--------------

So I don't know where this leaves me. One of the things that I thought
finishing Circle Games so early would allow me to do is to rest during
the end of the school year, and then be able to hop to right now. I
haven't been so lucky. I'm realizing that the pattern I'm using right
now isn't working, but rather than allow myself to slip and loose too
much territory I need to change something in hopes of jump starting the
process. Writing more/different things is a start, reading more is
always a good thing too. I'm also going to be on vacation or at least
out of town for a while, and hopefully with my laptop, a few good and
friendly notebooks, and a change of scenery I'll be able to move in the
right direction.

My most sincere apologies for not proofing this entry as much as it
needs.

