=======
My Face
=======

.. post:: 2003-08-26
   :author: tychoish

I just read something in our paper about how supporters of the Chief
Justice of Alabama's display of the 10 commandments on state property
are claiming that a federal court order to remove the display "violates
Christian's freedom of religion"

Before I continue, allow me to give the best example for constitutional
freedoms that I know of (the fist swinging one): That is that we all
have the freedom to swing our fists as much or as wildly as we want;
however, your right to swing your fists ends at my nose. You can swing
your fists as much as you want, but you can't hit some one. Freedom of
speech has a few limitations which the Supreme Court established in a
series of cases. I'm not sure I remember all of them (sorry Mr. History
Teacher) but they are: The Incitement Standard (you can't say stuff that
will cause imminent lawless action; ie. You can't start a mob.) National
Security (You can't say stuff that'll hurt the country's defensive
strategy. Treason is lumped in here). Slander (you can't say things that
intentionally hurt the reputation of another person when what you say is
untrue.) These relate to free speech, but similar judgments exist for
the other freedoms.

Back to Alabama and supposedly disenfranchised Christians.

People have a right to believe whatever crazy shit they see fit to
believe in. That's freedom of religion and everyone has it. You have the
right to believe in a system of morality that guides your actions;
however, you *cannot* claim that by failing to believe as you do, that
others are violating your right to believe. For example, I spent some
time with a woman who believed that swearing went against her
Christianity. Fine, then don't swear; but if I chose swear, I'm not
doing a damn thing to infringe on your freedom of religion. Another
Example: If your church doesn't believe in performing gay marriage
ceremonies, then your church can refuse to perform those ceremonies, but
If I want to get married by a judge or by a minister, priest, or rabbi
at a church that wants to perform a ceremony for me, then I'm not
infringing on your church by getting married. Likewise, if your church
doesn't believe in non-procreative sex, then by all means don't have sex
without the clear intention of reproducing, but don't tell me what I can
and can't do in my bed with my boyfriend. My sex life can not possibly
interfere with your religion.

It seems that we have the first definition of unilateral freedom. That
having the freedom of religion, or speech, or press allows **us** to
practice our own religion, speech, or press without fearing retribution.
We don't have the second part of the definition, which is, that in order
to maintain our freedoms we have to continually work to ensure the
freedom of all others. That our freedom's aren't truly unilateral, that
your right to swing your fist ends at my face.

