===========
New Sweater
===========

.. post:: 2011-08-23
   :author: tychoish

This post comes in two parts: an update on the current knitting
project and an introduction to a new sweater that I've started
recently. See the :doc:`Ideal Sweater </posts/ideal-sweater>` and
:doc:`Sweater Stories </posts/sweater-stories>` posts for more
information on my current thinking about knitting and writing.

Current Sweater: Gray and Black
-------------------------------

I've been trying to write an update on my current knitting, but to be
honest I'd rather be knitting than writing little updates and taking
picture of the thing that I'm knitting. Also, while there's something
engaging and captivating about the long slog from the hem to the
shoulder during the knitting, even though progress is always apparent,
there's not a lot to talk about for weeks and weeks while the piece
grows. 

I think it's going to be a great sweater, and while it's not the first
thing I've really knit recently, I think it's the first that I care to
finish. There are a lot of great things about this sweater: the
pattern is fun to knit, it's the perfect size, it matches the cats,
and it's visually interesting without being *busy*. Also, I used
Shetland yarn, and it's really impossible to say enough about how much
little things like that matter. 

I'm not yet done with the sweater. As I draft this post, I've knit the
body and the collar, and just have sleeves left to do. I knit sleeves
from the top-down, and am three inches or so past the shoulder. The
sleeves will be pretty straight forward and are just a matter of
spending some time. 

The problem with knitting sleeves from the top down is that you have
to have a full sweater on your lap. In the summer this means
overheating with a pound of wool on your lap or knitting at a
table. Neither of which is terribly ideal. As a result I've started
the next sweater. I'll try and post something about the sweater as a
whole when its done but in the mean time I'd like to collect a few
thoughts and lessons learned so far.

- I think the neck opening is a bit too wide. I have a crew-neck
  formula that I've been using for a while that might need to be
  tweaked. 
  
  Basically three inches before the shoulder, decrease every row on
  both sides of the neck for an inch and a half, decrease every other
  row for the last inch and a half. Create a steek over the back of
  the neck after the first inch and a half and decrease both the front
  and the back at the same rate. Start at the bottom of the front
  steek with half the number of stitches you'll eventually decrease
  (from the front.) 

  In [EPS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_Zimmermann#EPS_system)
  terms, the total neck opening should consume a third of the total
  number of stitches and one sixth of the total number of stitches
  three inches before the shoulder seam. But divide everything in half
  for the front and back to get a usable number.

- I think my gauge has changed noticeably in the last 4 years, but
  only the row gauge. I for one find this strange, though there's not
  much I can do with it except deal with it. 

- This sweater has a number of turned hems, and I've realized a two
  important facts about knitting turned hems: 

  - The conventional instructions say: knit a facing, knit a round of
    Purl stitches to "turn the hem" and then knit on. (Can be done in
    reverse, depending on which direction your going.) Don't. Knit
    *two* rounds of purl stitches. The turn is much more sharp. 

  - Knit the hem facing on *two* needle sizes smaller than the actual
    knitting. If you can knit the facing on 80-90% of the number of
    stitches as well (in some situations this isn't feasible.) 

  - Knit the purl stitches with the smaller needle rather than
    switching to the smaller needle to knit the facing. 

  - Knit one more round before joining the hem in than you think you
    need. 

 - If you're knitting with Shetland and not planning to treat your
   steaks to secure them, steam the steek before cutting. Also, an
   extra couple of stitches wouldn't hurt. Tragedy was averted, but it
   was closer than I'd like.

I'll get more notes out (and perhaps elaborations of these points? If
there's interest.) after I finish.

New Sweater: Blue and Blue 
--------------------------

I started a new sweater because the existing sweater was a bit to
heavy and too warm. And I had yarn in the closet that was begging to
be knit. This won't be the first sweater I started knitting in August
for this reason. 

Also, I had the plan for the new sweater all developed and I wanted to
get started: I'm an adult and I can do that.

The yarn is Shetland. Harrisville Designs "Midnight," is the darker
color, and I'm using some light blue-gray that I got from Webs a few
years ago for the contrasting color. Probably the last great mill end
from webs. The lighter color came in a 3 pound cone, and I've already
made a sweater (a flop) out of the yarn and didn't seem to make much
of a dent.

The pattern itself is built around the same snowflake pattern that
I've been using (this makes sweater number 4 with the same pattern,)
but is the most reminiscent of the first sweater in the series, with
some improvements for greater knitability. The effect, I hope, will
be reminiscent of cables. 

At the time of drafting, I've not yet joined the hem facing and the
lower edge. I'll probably post again about this one again after it
starts looking like a sweater but before the long slog starts.

Onward and Upward!
