============
Notation Bin
============

.. post:: 2005-09-24
   :author: tychoish

This document is a general collection of all sorts of notes, created by
and deemed relevant to my life, my studies and my pursuits. The
intention is that this document will be much like the notebook that I
have up until quite recently carried around with me damn near every
where. While I realize that this is something of a foolish transition
(given that my laptop is sizably larger than it's analog equivelent.) I
think that it will be good to digitize this age old kind of data
concomeration, given my habit of taking my laptop with me so much of the
time.

In past notebook's (which I have, in perfect Sam form, dragged behind me
every time I've moved, despite the fact that once finished I almost
never go back and reference old notebooks.) I've frequently left the
first few pages blank with the hope of keeping some sort of table of
contents. This is almost always a useless expenditure of time, as I a)
never keep such an index, and b) have a pretty good time remembering
where specific notes are. Yet, that's precisely the purpose of this kind
of digital transition: to keep a more organized and relationally linked
database of notes.

To be fair this isn't the first iteration of a digital notebook that
I've made. I used a program called Notational Velocity, which has worked
quite well for me. Basically it's digital card file with a handful of
nifty features, spell check, search-ability, and an always on instant
save, which make it totally worth it. Unfortunately, as I began to use
the program more there were a couple of features that I really felt like
I needed. The first one was the ability to edit more than one note at a
time (useful when taking field notes for ethnographic methodologies. The
second was a new way of organizing titles/filenames. I'm usually really
good about creating descriptive file names that will lump together when
listing files by title. It's helpful for keeping groups of files
organized, but slightly less helpful when trying to determine what's in
the file, because the name tends to be really long and less specifically
descriptive. So at Chris' recommendation I got VoodooPad, a program
which basically uses the idea of a Wiki, to organize a note taking
program. It's sort of hard to imagine until you get used it. Then it's
wonderful.

In the tradition of leaving the first few pages of a notebook blank, and
then having the problem of setting the mood for a notebook and starting
a new notebook. I've decided to use this "page" (and the entry teal that
it will become) to discuss a more basic day to day aspect of my
operation and tendency at the time of my writing as of.

At this point I use the computer for almost all of my writing and data
creation and collection. Because so much of the content of my classes is
digital and I'd just as soon not create hard copies, I have my computer
with me all the time. So I suppose that it makes a great deal of sense
to avoid using a computer for note taking. At one point I thought that
having a truly portable computing solution would give me the chance to
write more effectively because I could write electronically (which is
really what is most comfortable for me anyway), anywhere. Seems the
problem was that writing isn't the kind of vocation that one can just
pick up and put down at any point. For that I needed to learn how to
knit. The fact is that the computer doesn't really let me do anything
that I wasn't already doing with a notebook, it just has the potential
to not drive me crazy in the long run.

So there you have it. You may think that all this portability would
actually mean that I'd post to TealArt More often. Well that would be
nice wouldn't it? But alas, that's not how it seems to work most of the
time. I guess that you have to take what you get. Cheers.

