=============
Phone Torched
=============

.. post:: 2010-10-21
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: cyborg, mobile-technology

I mentioned in a `recent update
post </2010/09/its-a-great-time-to-be-alive>`__, that I had recently
gotten a new cell phone, which given who I am and how I interact with
technology means that I've been thinking about things like the shifting
role of cell phones in the world, the way we actually *use* mobile
technology, the ways that the technology has failed to live up to our
expectations, and of course some thoughts on the current state of the
"smart-phone" market. Of course.

--------------

I think even two years ago quasi-general purpose mobile computers (e.g.
smart phones) were not nearly as ubiquitous as they are today. The
rising tide of the iPhone has, I think without a doubt, raised the boat
of general smart phone adoption. Which is to say that the technology
reached a point where these kinds of devices--computers--are of enough
use to most people that widespread adoption makes sense. We've reached a
tipping point, and the iPhone was there at the right moment and has
become the primary exemplar of this moment.

That's probably neither here nor there.

With more and more people connected in an independent and mobile way to
cyberspace, via either simple phones, (which more clearly matches
Gibson's original intentions for the term,) or via smart phones I think
we might begin to think about the cultural impact of having so many
people so connected. Cellphone numbers become not just convenient, but
in many ways complete markers of identity and person-hood. Texting in
most situations overtakes phone calls as the may way people interact
with each other in cyberspace, so even where phone calls may be
irrelevant SMS has become the unified instant messaging platform.

As you start to add things like data to the equation, I think the
potential impact is huge. I spent a couple weeks with my primary
personal Internet connection active through my phone, and while it
wasn't ideal, the truth is that it didn't fail *too* much. SSH on
Blackberries isn't *ideal*, particularly if you need a lot from your
console sessions, but it's passable. That jump from "I really can't cut
this on my phone," to "almost passable" is probably the hugest jump of
all. The series of successive jumps over the next few years will be
easier.

Lest you think I'm all sunshine and optimism, I think there are some
definite short comings with contemporary cell phone technology. In
brief:

-  There are things I'd like to be able to do with my phone that I
really can't do effectively, notably seamlessly sync files and notes
between my phone and my desktop computer/server. There aren't even
really passable note taking applications.

-  There are a class of really fundamental computer functionality that
*could* theoretically work on the phone, but don't because the
software doesn't exist or is of particularly poor quality. I'm
thinking of SSH, of note taking, but also of things like non-Gmail
Jabber/XMPP functionality.

-  Some functionality which really ought to be more mature than it is
(e.g. music playing) is still really awkward on phones, and better
suited to dedicated devices (e.g. iPods) or to regular computers.

The central feature in all of these complaints is software related, and
more an issue of software design, and an ability to really design for
this kind of form factor. There are some limitations: undesirable input
methods, small displays, limited bandwidth, unreliable connectivity, and
so forth. And while some may improve (e.g. connectivity, display size)
it is also true that we need to get better at designing applications and
useful functionality in this context.

My answer to the problem of designing applications for the mobile
context will seem familiar if you know me.

I'd argue that we need applications that are less dependent upon a
connection and have a great ability to cache content locally. I think
the Kindle is a great example of this kind of design. The Kindle is very
much dependent upon having a data connection, but if the device falls
offline for a few moments, in most cases no functionality is lost. Sure
you can do really awesome things if you assume that everyone has a
really fat pipe going to their phone, but that's not realistic, and the
less you depend on a connection the better the user experience is.

Secondly, give users as much control over the display, rendering and
interaction model that their software/data uses. This, if implemented
very consistently (difficult, admittedly,) means that users can have
global control over their experience, and users won't be confused by
different interaction models between applications.

Although the future is already here, I think it's also fair to say that
it'll be really quite interesting to see what happens next. I'd like a
chance to think a bit about the place of open source on mobile devices
and also the interaction between the kind of software that we see on
mobile devices and what's happening in the so-called "cloud computing"
world. In the mean time...

Outward and Upward!

