=======
process
=======

.. post:: 2008-01-10
   :author: tychoish

Ok, I have a lot of email writing and fussing to-do. I collected a fair
piece of information to inform my decision about this class. Sill
avoiding making any sort of direct decision for a little while. I feel
really bad about staying in the class, but I could do it if it turns out
to be *the right thing to do,* but I'm not sure that it would be, and
that's what I have to decide.

I just made the most awesome pot of tea. In case you were wondering.

One thing I've realized about *breakout* (the story) that I'm working on
is that I'm approaching it in a too granular sort of way. I'm too
concerned about getting characters from point a. to point b. and I find
myself re-reading a section that I've already written and saying "crap,
I need to go back and add x bit." While it's really *fun* to write, I
think this is a pretty fundamental problem, and I need to take a step
back and think about it. Maybe start making revisions to what I have
already, because the organization is pretty complex and I'd be remiss if
I just continue on blithely.

In any case, I think it would be a very good thing to do to get a "real"
job soon. I'd really like to find some sort of tech support-ish type
gig. I'm thinking of boning up on SQL and then trying for a job with the
corp that leads the development of that project (big for-profit company
in the open source world, if you know what I'm talking about you know
who I mean, if you don't, it doesn't matter.) Or something. I don't live
in the right place to do that kind of stuff generally, but I've seen
jobs with this company that are entry level and aren't location
specific, I think.

Or something else. Who knows, I'll probably end up doing something not
at all computer related, but I figure I have three major marketable
skills: my mean skills with a bash terminal (so computers), power
knitting genius (hard to get *enough* paying knitting work, though if
any of you know fashion designers in NY that need someone to do
commission work and a reasonable rate...), and mean social science
mojo... I'm working on being a scientist for next year, the knitting
thing, is as above, so I figure it's time to put the geek card out and
see what's out there.

Ok, I need to go see if I can resurrect my writing, somehow.

Onward and Upward!

tycho out.

