=========================
Rethinking GTD: My System
=========================

.. post:: 2007-01-26
   :author: tychoish

Hey folks!

I'm back with the next installment of my GTD series. I had
underestimated my schedule (it being a new semester), and the time I had
blocked off to write the GTD essay, was lost to reading about Filipino
post/coloinal history. It was great. Doing things, rather than meta-ing
about doing things, (which is a theme we'll pick up later in the
series).

I also really loved the comments that people posted in response to the
last entry. TealArt hasn't been a very comment-y blog for too long. We
can and should change this, though.

I said last time, that I'd spend this time talking about my situation
and how I work. This essay, will explain how I work, and why I've chosen
to work this way.

While I'm a huge computer dork, and most of my work is on the computer,
I do tend to carry 2 notebooks with me at any given point. The first is
a little black notebook (these days, it's a Moleskine, but it's
frequently just a stenopad or something) that I use to make lists, write
reminders in, plan projects, make short notes, and sometimes even sketch
outlines for projects. Generally we could call this first, and more
important notebook the "meta" notebook. The second non-comptuer
notebook, is a content notebook--at the moment it's a mid-sized sketch
book--that I use usually for a bigger writing or reading project, and
sometimes class notes. Generally, this is just a general use 3-subject
notebook, that contains notes for two separate projects, and then an
odds-and ends section for class notes, reading notes for articles, and
more specific project planning. This semester, it's a bit weird, but
it's working out.

We'll spend more time thinking about what goes on paper and what goes on
the computer later, but I want to spend a moment contemplating my little
black book. Particularly, its organization and the kinds of lists I
make.

GTD recommends organizing tasks by context (location/resources) and by
project. In addition to the problem that with a few exceptions, I always
have everything I need to do to just about everything on my list, and
that my projects are *HUGE,* I find some tension with the assumption
that s that at the very base-level, all of the things we do are rote
tasks. What I've heard David Allen refer to as "Widgets". Thus in his
method, encourages folk to do the organizational thinking up front, so
that one could theoretically be virtually comatose while the "doing"
happens.

The truth is that most of my projects aren't just cranking widgets. So
ignoring the fact that I nearly always have everything that I need to do
all of my tasks, most of my constraints are both time based, and pretty
soft. GTD expects that contexts are to have hard distinctions, while I
don't really have contexts, most of my tasks are time sensitive. So
here's what I do.

In the meta-notebook, I make a list for every day, the night before,
that reflects my schedule for the upcoming day, the current status of my
projects, and any loose ends from the previous day, and any appointments
I may have. Rather than have a weekly review, that might take an hour,
like GTD suggests, I do about 10 minutes of review every day, literally
right before I take my glasses off to go to bed. This has the particular
benefit of letting me get everything off my chest and out of my head and
lets me get to sleep without rehearsing a list of things to do.

*So you make a to-do list, that's your system? L-a-m-e!*

I heard that, I think the key part of this list making is where the
items come from. Some things are of course, generated on the fly
(remember to get a signature, or print something for class), others
reflect oddities in my schedule (there's a talk at 4, or a meeting at
3), some are personal chores (check mail, shower, clean desk), but many,
or most, reflect progress in ongoing projects and class work and draw on
other lists in the book. Oh, and by the way, each daily list, is written
on its own sheet of paper on the right side of the book.

*Right side? Why on Earth*

So I can use the left hand side for something else. Sometimes the left
hand side is used for input that will contribute to tomorrow's list.
Sometimes the left side is used for project planning. Sometimes it is
overflow. Sometimes it's a general location or "inbox," loosely in the
GTD framework. I've also been known to make little lists of things I
want to look up on wikipedia or Google. While I think of this as another
level of project planning, I'm also prone to making "master lists" of
things that need to get done in a given week, sort of a "this week for
sam..." preview, to track due dates and what not.

I think most of these uses are pretty self evident, but I'll spend a
moment on the project planning. Sometimes, I have a project that takes
more than a day or two to complete, or that seems particularly complex
or daunting. So I take a right side page, and list all of the component
parts of this project. As in GTD, the key to a good project, is
something that is manageable. "Write book" is a lousy project to start
out, whereas "gather materials to begin research for book" is better.
Generally my projects are the kinds of things that I think I can finish
in a couple of weeks. I also keep a record of my schedule using iCal but
Google Calendar (and so forth) would also work very well, for these
purposes.

The keys to making this work for me is it's flexibility. I make new
lists most days, but some lists take two days to get through, and
sometimes I need to reogranize the list over lunch. This recognizes the
give and take of analyical/creative energy levels, interest, or
relevance: sometimes, things that seemed really crucial when I wrote
them down, end up becoming irrelevant or just don't need to be done. An
important part of the flexibility is knowing that it's ok if I don't
check everything off of the list every day--and most days, despite my
ambitions, I don't get everything checked off.

So before I cut this monster off, the highlights for me are:
flexibility, regular reviews, rabid centralized list-making, and
sensible project planning. Your milage will probably vary. But that's
the point: don't copy, spend a week or two thinking about how and when
you work, and see how/if you can work something out that allows you to
prevent things from slipping through the cracks, clear tasks off of your
sieve mind, and organize your meta data in a way that is always
accessible and can work with you.

I've mentioned a lot of things briefly here that I'll explore in more
depth later in the series. Next time, I'll cover some digital issues,
I'm thinking: keeping the computer experience organized, the
paper-digital discussion, and mobile/digital concerns.

Cheers, tycho(ish)

