===============
Sing the Shapes
===============

.. post:: 2010-10-05
   :author: tychoish
   :tags: sacred-harp

I wrote a bit about sacred harp singing for a few months about a year
ago, when I was really starting to get into it, and then I mostly
stopped. I've had a few singing related experiences recently that I
think are worth recounting, even if they're a bit disjointed. So I'll
just hop in and hope that it adds up to something in the end. Also, if
you're not familiar with Sacred Harp Singing, I'm sorry if there isn't a
lot of sub tittling. Thanks for reading!

--------------

I was hanging out with R.F. and we were flipping through my copy of the
sacred harp, and he was trying to get how the relative pitching thing
works (having more formal experience singing with choirs and what not,
and a sense of pitch that's way more closely tied to a piano than mine.)
and he said something like "so this one would start 'here?'" I think it
was 300, and I have no clue how "right," I was or what inspired this,
but his pitch was about a step and a half (I think,) high, and so I gave
something that was more or less where I thought the song was supposed to
sit. We sang through a little bit of it, and it seemed to work.

I've never really had a lot of interest in being able to offer pitches
to a class of Sacred Harp singers, beyond the very selfish ability to
lead signings without needing to make sure that someone who can offer
keys in attendance.

--------------

I'm working on memorizing the book--strategically, of course-- as I can.
This makes signings more fun because you can look at people, while
singing rather than having your nose in a book the whole time. While
there aren't songs that I can safely leave the book closed for the
shapes, I know the tunes (mostly bass parts) and words to most of the
common ones (e.g. 178, 155, 89, 312b, 355, 300, 146, 148, 153, 112, 422,
209, 189, 186,) save a few middle verses that are sung rarely. I don't
think of my memory as being particularly good for this kind of
information, but it's nice to have reality prove you wrong.

--------------

One of the things that made Sacred Harp "click" for me when I really
started to get into it was that I had the good sense to sing bass. My
voice is pretty low, so this seems to fit, and I think staying in one
section for a long time helped solidity my sense of the music.

Since March/April, or thereabouts, I've started singing tenor (the
lead/melody) a bit. It's a stretch for my voice, and I'm slightly more
prone to loosing track of the key when singing higher notes (a not
uncommon problem,) but it's good for my brain, and I think it makes me a
better singer and leader. I've mostly done this at local singings, and
smaller signings when there are enough basses, or for a few songs at a
bigger singing when the mood strikes.

I'm thinking of doing this more often, and at more singings, as part of
an effort to become a better singer.

--------------

I think it's easy (at least for me) particularly in accounts like this
to focus on the singing, the technical aspects of the music, and the
texts used. And all of these components contribute to what makes singing
so great: its a gestalt experience, but I think its easy to gloss over
the best part of being a singer. Which is, of course, all the other
singers.

Being a "`community
guy <http://criticalfutures.com/2010/03/coming-of-age-in-the-science-fiction-community/>`__,"
I think it might be easy for me to wax poetic about how great sacred
harp singings are--and they are--but I think there's something deeper
and specific about singing communities that make them more accepting,
more engaged, more inclusive than other communities (dancing, writing,
professional,) that I've been involved in

Maybe it's that singing is a more transcendent experience that the focal
points of other communities to begin with so people are willing to
connect a bit more. Maybe the fact that singings are sometimes (often?)
held in people's homes is a factor. Maybe the extreme inclusiveness
combined with the somewhat substantial learning curve creates the right
environment to foster a strong and self selecting community. Perhaps all
of the travel to all day singings and conventions, combined with the
effort to arrange socials, unifies the community.

I'm not sure, but I've met a bunch of great people singing, and people
with whom I share more than just sufficient common interest in a shared
activity. I'm not sure every singing community is like this, but the
conversations and connections I've had with other singers have been
depthy, interesting, and have expanded beyond singing.

