=============
Still Kittens
=============

.. post:: 2008-07-01
   :author: tychoish

I haven't posted very much about the kittens of late. I'd like to report
that they're doing well. A friend (incidentally, the person who taught
me how to knit, lo those many years ago) visited the kittens a couple of
weeks ago, and upon the conclusion of her visit she said "I look forward
to hearing about their... career's." Frankly the thought of them having
careers--particularly when I don't really seem to--was a bit
frightening.

Nevertheless the concept has stuck. So here is a report on the careers
of Kip and Merlin:

Here's a picture:

- This is from a period when they were lying together on my desk. Very
cute. Note the ball winder in the background. Kip is in the
foreground.
- They've taken to having rolling night time battles which occasionally
interrupt my sleep as I become a substrate for these battles.
- Though they didn't purr very much when they first came to us, now
they'll both purr pretty much any time you pick them up. I'm in favor
of cats that purr.
- I'm starting to realize that my cat allergies are something that I
need to pay a little more attention to managing, particularly given
the long hard quality that these cats have. I think this will likely
just turn into a more regular face and hand washing behavior.

- Kip and Merlin have longer hair than other cats we've had in
recent years, though, when I was a small child we had a
Mainecoon-type cat who had longer hair than these boys. And lets
be fair, one of our big cats has medium-length fur which is
particularly silky and not staticy (which means that its airborne
more than it should be.)

- Kip has developed a fondness for a ball which he caries around and
growls adorably over.
- Merlin has discovered two things. One, he can pull the mag cord out
of my computer with ease when I'm sitting at my desk with my computer
on my lap. This is ok, because I have one of the mag cord on my new
computer, but it's annoying. The second thing that he's discovered is
that he *shouldn't* unplug the computer. So he grabs and runs.
- The grown up cats are starting to come around to the new cats. Their
initial response was fright (Nash) and Curiosity-Followed by
viciousness (Montana). Nash is still afraid but less so, and has
engaged aged in some parallel play, while Montana has had some more
positive interactions. I think if we didn't have concerns about
keeping food separate for a while I think they'd be ok to be fully
integrated at this point.

- I should underscore that Nash is a huge 16 pound cat, and Montana
is 10ish pounds. I think that element makes their reactions even
more funny.

- Kip and Merlin both have very faint taby stripes in their gray
sections. This is incredibly cute, and I'm not sure that it comes
across in any of the pictures.
- Kip has taken to waking me up in the night by running on me (less
bothersome than you'd think) and chewing on my ears (more bothersome
than you'd think). The first night, it was my toes--not ears--at
4:30, and he has moved on to ears at like 2:30. Though he can usually
be chided successfully, it's more disruptive of my sleep schedule and
overall functioning than I might like.

In summation: kittens are good. I approve. I'll keep you all posted as
their careers progress.

