========
Tea Cups
========

.. post:: 2007-09-27
   :author: tychoish

Longtime friends will know that I have these two blue-green tea
mugs--actually there have been 4 in total, though only three survive
today; and I only ever really have two at any given moment--and they are
sort of like character objects, because I had them with me pretty much
all day every day. The thing that got my friends I think most riled up
about them, is I didn't wash them, on the principal that a) tea is
acidic and therefore naturally a bit antiseptic, but more importantly
that I make tea by pouring boiling water on it. While I wouldn't want to
perform surgery in a tea cup in this state--but then, find me a dish
that you would like to do surgery on, I dare you!--given the myriad of
problems with kitchen sanitation (ew, spunges) I thought I was in pretty
good shape.

Well since I've been unemployed, and taking classes in an non-friendzied
way, I've developed a slightly different caffeine habit. When I go out,
I rarely take both mugs with me. I found I wasn't ever drinking both of
them when they were still warm. Whereas, I almost always finished both
of them before the end of an hour class when I was *AlmaMater*. Instead,
I've taken to making a three-cup pot, most days when I'm at home and
drinking from a stoneware handmade coffee cup that my dad brought home.
On peak days, we're talking about 4-6 cups of tea, but usually more like
3, in general, which I think is about par for me, maybe down a little,
but not much. Lest you think the habit is waning.

Even if I'm consuming about the same amount of tea as I always did, my
aforementioned travelmugs are getting much less use. I take one of them
out of the house about 3-4 days a week, When I'm home, they don't get
used. The thing about my above sanitation plan, is that it depends on
regular use, and recently the cups haven't been getting regular use.

So I decided--you'd be proud of me--to put the cups through the wash,
because they'd been sitting for too long.

End result?

The paint melted off in the dishwasher. Which means:

I'm looking for new cups.

I'd just like to say to all of my former roommates, who gave me shit
about the not washing the cups:

I hate you all.

