========================
The Ideal of Masculinity
========================

.. post:: 2003-09-03
   :author: tychoish

Our culture expects men to be strong, in control, unemotional,
courageous, and honorable. No matter how much progress we make these
characteristics still define the gender construction in this society. To
be masculine is to be, powerful, in control, heterosexual, unemotional,
angry, courageous, outspoken, without compromise, demeaning, the
anthesis of femininity, and dominating. It's all a façade, because all
men are unique combinations of the feminine and the masculine, the
former contradicts the latter. Thus male people aren't masculine;
they're forever trying to become masculine, which is a pursuit of an
unobtainable ideal.

As someone who is interested in men and masculinities, in this case,
academically, I think this puts me in a difficult situation. I've
charged myself with the task of investigating "what it means to be
masculine in our society." I've even categorized this as a gender
studies project, and have used the term "masculinity" extensively. But
as I'm writing this paper, I've realized that 'gender studies' has
little to do with what I'm actually trying to write with, and by looking
at things from this perspective, I've had to shift my perspective. I
don't want to find out what it means to be "masculine" anyone can be
masculine, and as I said (albeit indirectly), there is no real
definition of masculinity, and I'd hasten to say that because it's such
a subjective designation, that it doesn't exist in a form that can be
studied. Rather, I think I should be asking "What does it mean to be
male."

The first conflict this runs into is the social construction of gender.
Gender is socially constructed, and is completely subject to the
definitions of a culture. But I'm not seeking to counter or to support
this. I'm not approaching this with an anthropological perspective,
looking at entire (and often foreign) cultures is very cool, but at the
same time I'm much more interested in individuals, and how individuals
fit into society. And in this case, I'm really interested in our own
society. My second problem is that a great deal of the work I'm trying
to accomplish here is based on introspection and self-study. I'm not
sure how to validate this, or even if I should try to validate this, so
for the present I'm going to let it stand.

While I think that we really can't say that "masculinity" even exists,
there are plenty of people who are male. This is still not a
categorization that's based on biology, but rather on self-identity.
It's also much easier to discuss because people are either male or
they're not. I realize that this isn't completely true, but it's damn
near impossible to say anything believable, or come to meaningful
conclusions when you're constantly accounting for the exception. This is
something that I should have taken from my experience at Anytown and
applied to this circumstance: while the world is made up of exceptions,
societies (and history) are constructed of general trends. By focusing
too much time on exceptions we can completely lose track of what we are
searching for. In that direction, while I'm quite aware of
gender-variance and what not, for the purpose's of this project I'm
going to divide the world into men and women, and that'll have to be
good enough.

So then I have to ask: What does it mean to be male?

Men are faced with the social pressure to be "masculine," which they
have to balance with their own gender characteristics, which often
includes elements that run counter to the pressure to be "masculine."
Men enjoy the privileges of the male gender regardless of their desire
for these privileges. The privilege isn't without costs as it is the
privilege that creates the pressure to be masculine. Men embody many
masculine characteristics: they have trouble showing emotions other than
anger; they view anything effeminate or feminine as weak and abhorrent;
they have problems giving up control or power in many situations; if
they feel out of control, hurt, cowardly, or dependent, they chastise
themselves. That's being male.

Another thing that I've found myself doing in the course of this project
is expanding the scope reputedly so that I'm not just talking about gay
men, because obviously that's what I want to do. Because talking just
about gay men strikes me as incredibly self serving, and any critic that
wanted to could come a long and say "you're not perusing scholarly
wisdom, you're contemplating your own existence," and they'd be right.
But then, what is the pursuit of scholarly wisdom, if it's not the
contemplation of our own existence?

This is a bias on my part, but I think I can honestly say that I
believe, that straight people, men in particular, don't consider their
sexuality when they think about them selves. Most of time, even though
its often not the first thing gay men think about themselves, they do
consider it, and it is very much a part of their self identity. And
before you ask, I don't think it's possible to consider masculinity
without confronting issues surrounding sexual orientation. No matter how
we categorize ourselves, as humans we are sexual beings and especially
around issues of gender, this sexual aspect is inseparable from the
issue of gender. Furthermore, *my* sexuality… being gay… is a very
prominent part of how I perceive my own gender, for good or ill, and as
this is my project, I'm going to confront issues of the male gender as
it intersects with sexuality.

Having said that I think it's interesting to note that on a sociological
scale, there are really few differences between gay and straight men.
Cultural differences aside, sexuality has little impact on how men
interact with each other and the world; rather, sexuality does impact
the self-identity and perception of being male, which as I've stated
before is what ultimately defines 'male.'

Contradictions abound in this study, and I think that is traceable to
the very beginning of this train of thought. Masculinity as a concrete
concept in our culture doesn't exist, at the same time men clearly do.
It's, obviously an incredibly slippery topic.

(Editor's Note: I should note that the preceding portion of this
post was composed at an ungodly hour and may be somewhat lacking in
coherence.)

One thing I've done in this post so far is completely ignore the
existence of bisexuals, which is abhorrent on my part, and perhaps
that's some sort of cosmic pointer to something I should spend more time
looking into. On the other hand, there is very little published research
(scholarly or otherwise) on bisexuals and bisexual males, which for my
purposes at this moment is critical.

I'm interested in reader's input, but before I bring this monster of a
post to a close, I'm going to put in a few definite statements to help
with my direction as I get further into this project:

- Gender characteristics, such as femininity and masculinity are
  created and reinforced by the patriarchy and are not really suitable
  to either female and male people respectively.

- Both gay and straight men face the same challenges as men, and while
  sexuality very much defines gender self-perception, it has
  relatively little effect on how men function in society.

- Gender is defined by the individual.

- Men don't function well in groups of men, despite the fact that
  research shows that men form their most meaningful non-romantic
  friendships with other men. (This is a commentary on non-romantic
  and non-sexual friendships, and thus applies to men who are both gay
  and straight).

- Within communities of queer men, despite the perception of an effeminate
  overtone, the group continues to bend to the will of the patriarchal
  idealization of masculinity.

Ok, that's going to have to do it for now. I'm sure there's more in
there somewhere, and I suspect that they'll find their way out here
sooner or later. Cheers!
