===============
The Knit Stitch
===============

.. post:: 2007-03-13
   :author: tychoish

I couldn't really start a series of essays on TealArt about knitting,
without writing several hundred words about the knit stitch. Before you
close the window, hear me out. The knit stitch is really kind of
awesome. You'll be glad you stuck around.

I'm not sure who said "there's only one stitch in knitting, you can just
do a thousand things to it," and that's besides the point, I think. It's
a truth of knitting: there really is only one stitch, and while you can
do a thousand things with it, I'm content to just do a couple of dozen
with mine. One would think that teaching knitting would be easy given
it's apparent simplicity: if there's only one stitch, how much is there
to learn. When you hand someone a set of needles and some scraps of yarn
and the make their first lumpy garter stitch rectangle (or whatever), it
doesn't seem like knitting can really be that simple. But it is.

I have found no way to teach someone "stitch theory," a term that I just
made up, by which I mean the fundamental concept of how the "loops" of
yarn interact with each-other to form the "one" knit stitch. It takes
time, repetition and a bit of encouragement to *look* at your knitting,
to understand what's going on, as you knit. This of course sounds
absurdly obvious and a bit odd coming from someone who routinely reads
or watches television whilst knitting, but I have no clever way of
communicating this skill. It can be learned and even encouraged, but I'm
not sure if it can be thought. Once you understand how knit stitches
work and build upon each-other, its easier to start thinking
structurally about how garments fit together and how to shape garments
to fit your needs. But the granule understanding is really important.

Armed with a firm understanding of the knit stitch, it becomes possible
to think about building things with knit stitches: sweaters, hats,
socks, mittens, gloves, house-cozys, and so forth. Later in the series,
I'll muse about some of the finer points of design and building, but for
this introductory episode, I'll focus on the larger picture. One of the
most valuable skills that I've been able to develop as a knitter is
"mental knitting." Not, *mental* knitting, what I'm talking about is to
knit in your head, as a way of test knitting. If you know how a stitch
forms, and how knitted fabric behaves you can then begin to knit in your
head (at blinding speeds!) as a way of testing out your next move.
Because knit stitches, how ever you form them, are basically little
blocks, if you can invasion how they'll fit together, it makes it easy
to implement, design, or alter a pattern: because of this I've
occasionally felt that there was an under-respected connection between
knitting and architecture. In any case, all this grows out of knowing
how knit stitches "work" which in tern grows out of being able to really
watch your knitting.

In terms of teaching this, I have substantially less to offer. On a
personal level, I think my ability to knit in my head grew out of
learning how to fix mistakes, and out of my inside out and backwards way
of knitting--I knit in the contrary direction to the way that many
people knit--but this is not the only way for the connection to form but
it is one way. In an effort to encourage this kind of understanding I've
tried to encourage to new knitters to seek out new skills, shapes, and
kinds of knitting as quickly as they feel comfortable. If knitting is
simply one stitch, one way to come to understand the knit stitch and how
to "read" it is to begin to experience its many variations. With luck,
this might also have the benefit of preventing future aversions to
particularly kinds of knitting, such as the one that I (and I suspect a
number of others) have against purling: it's actually kind of amazing
the lengths I'll go to avoid purling. Like most "issues" in knitting,
such aversions are clearly not insurmountable, they are not desirable
either.

This series on TealArt will continue to explore issues related to
traditional knitting, design, and "knitting pedagogy," and I hope that
today's discussion of the knit stitch and the very fundamentals of the
skill of knitting, will provide a useful introduction. I promise that
future installments will be less... dry.

Stay well, tycho

