==================
Theories of Change
==================

.. post:: 2008-12-11
   :author: tychoish

Things change. People change. Societies change. You might not be able to
get social scientists and cultural theorists to agree on very much, but
the fact that change happens is pretty easy to stomach. The difficulty
come in when we start to think about *how* things change. What follows
is a review of the competing approaches to what I'm calling "theories of
change," I hope this helps me (and you!) organize some thoughts.

There are, near as I can tell, three major schools of thought that
attempt to explain "how things change:" evolution, complexity/emergence
(chaos), and development. In turn:

Evolution
---------

Derived of course from biology, there's a great deal of evidence that
biological systems have evolved and continue to evolve. Evolution is
predicated on the assumption that the most adaptive variations in a
given population will propagate themselves more than less adaptive
variations, which will propagate themselves less. Evolution is a very
"big picture" process, and--at least in the biological sense--refers to
change and adaption on the scale of the population on the whole.

There are a few things that more casual applications of the theory seem
to forget that I think are key:

- Evolution values adaptability and diversity over just about
everything else, adaptable individuals and diverse populations are
more resilient to shorter term changes in the environment, so
evolutionary analysis that's grounded in survivability in a
particular situation are relatively week.
- Evolution takes a long time. Many generations. Many many generations.
So many that it's really hard to think about evolution "happening"
given the way that we think about time. In many ways, its easier to
think about continents moving around than it is to think about the
way populations evolve.
- There's little good evidence that evolution occurs in non-biological
systems. We use evolution as an analogy for many change-processes,
but as a mechanism, outside of biology its limited.

Complexity
----------

I really like complexity or emergence theory, but I'm not a math guy,
and I don't have a very good grasp of it. The basic idea is that in the
right conditions, systems of independent "actors" that interact with
each other will given time develop some sort of organization, and that
these "systems" (as actors) combine to form higher level systems. And so
forth.

So for example, humanity can be seen as an example of emergent
complexity: our bodies are made up of molecules that interact with each
other to form sub-cellular structures and cells (actors), which make up
tissues and then organs (systems), which make up our bodies. Our bodies
(and selves) are actors in social systems... and so forth. I've left a
lot out. Obviously evolution is an example of a complexity theory, but
complexity theories have been used (successfully, I'd argue) to explain
how systems work and form in non-population scale biological systems and
non-biological systems, and also on time scales that are shorter than
anything evolution could work with.

The organization of photographs in tags on flickr is largely emergent
(as are google's search results), and intelligence is often described as
being emergent. There are more, and I'm sorry if I don't have really
good examples of this.

Development
-----------

I use the idea of development to help describe smaller scale adaptations
and adjustments over time. I studied a lot of Developmental Psychology
for a while in there, and I think a concept of development is really
important to thinking about the ways people change, and grow. Just as we
know that evolution happens to populations over time, we *know* that
humans (and other animals) are continuously developing throughout their
existences.

Human development has two major divisions: the intrinsic biological
processes and the process of adapting to different contexts. The
biological stuff is pretty limited: it's impossible to walk or develop
speech before a certain age because the vocal/skeletal musculature isn't
developed enough. Stuff on that scale. These sorts of
biological/physical limitations are developmentally relevant mostly
because they limit the possibility for external experience.

The adaptation to context part of development is grounded in learning
theory (cognitive/behavioral psychology), and helps explain how
individuals interact and change with regard to their world, and it all
depends on experience. What language a child learns depends on what
language they're exposed to. Our sensitivity to heat and cold, is
largely dependent on where we live. The way we cope with stress depends
on the outcomes of past stressful experiences, and how we witness other
people cope with stress.

Development describes how individuals (actors/systems) are shaped and
changed by experience. It's something that happens over time, at varying
rates and is dependent on context. Non living things can be thought of
as "developing." Institutions, intellectual projects, science and
technologies, and so forth.

Right and?
----------

That's what I have. It's really easy to just say "evolve" when we mean
change, and similarly easy to recognize "stuff changes," when the really
interesting and powerful part is to understand the mechanisms that
produce change. The processes of change differ depending on what is
changing, which is only fitting. I'm going to try and get a little bit
clearer on complexity theory, and I'll probably follow this post up in
the coming future.

