=====
Today
=====

.. post:: 2006-11-15
   :author: tychoish

Here, in the finest tradition of bloggers droning on endlessly on the
content of their days, is what happened.

1.  I went to bed at 1-am last night, for, near as I can tell, no good
reason. I did some studying for a test I had today, and I got some
reading done, and did some note taking and what not. My sleep
schedule has been a bit wierd of late, so this isn't a huge deal.

2.  I woke up at 7:20-ish, but it was mid-sleep cycle so I was groggy
and weird, which is never fun. Note to self, maybe earplugs can help
prevent such oddities. If I can hit the sleep cycles just right, I
can wake up without much pain. Feh.

3.  I got out of bed and chugged a cup of tea at about 7:45, with the
intention of leaving the house at 8:20 for an 8:40 breakfast.

4.  At 8:05 I became seriously nauseated. It was clearly the fact that I
chugged the tea (there was no dairy in the tea), but I couldn't
fathom eating breakfast. I knew that it would pass, and that it was
probably a blood-sugar/hydration issue, but anyway. I trudged off to
class/test at 8:47.

5.  9:02, taking my illness as an excuse, I rode the elevator to my
class on the 4th floor of the science building with two of my
classmates. The test hadn't started. I felt reasonably prepared. The
professor offered to push the test back a while to let us cram, but
given that the test was over neural-memory systems and what not, I
thought this was a bad idea, as I was rehearsing what I knew about
LTP.

6.  I finished the test at 9:40, and I think I did pretty well. All I
really need to do on this, and the next test, is get better than a
76 on this and the next test, and I should end up with something
resembling an A- in the class. And I think I do that well. (It's
crazy. I do well enough on the papers and other parts of the grade
which total to like 68% percent of the grade, that the fact that I
consistently score in the 76 range on the tests, means that I'm in
good shape). The professor had brownie-cookies in class which helped
with the blood-sugar issue, and I had some water when I got to the
class room which helped with hydration, and by the time I got into
the test I was fine.

7.  I had a instant message conversation with my father, which was
vaguely surreal (Hi dad), while I waited for one of my TAe-es, or to
talk the professor. Ultimately I met with the prof about my project
for that class that's going to avoid designing some sort of
incredibly complex study to explore affilivive responses to identity
and autobiogrpahical representations. It's basically one of the
things that I'm really interested in, with skin conductance tacked
on for good measure, but I'm excited. If I can ever have enough of
my brain cells free at one time to sketch it all out.

8.  I had a meeting with another one of my TAe-es at 11. It was awkward
and I took way too long to read the paper, but I think I was helpful
enough

9.  I ate lunch with a friend at 12. It was nice to finally eat and
relax.

10. I met with the first TAe at 2. I hung out in the class room and
surfed teh internets, from about 1 until the TAe got there. Durring
this time I got caught up on the news reader, and began organizing
some thoughts for the paper I've been writing today.

11. At 3 I was so exhausted that I went back to my room and promptly
fell asleep. I had 1 cup of tea (well two, I guess if you count the
cold one I had that morning) at this point, which is at least 2 less
than I'm used to and, this time for completely different reasons, I
once again doubted my ability to walk across campus.

12. I woke up at 5:20, pulled myself together, did a little bit of
reading and then went to dinner at about 6, and had pasta and
noodles, that were of passable quality, and then went back to my
room and worked until the roommate came home 9. We talked and
puttered about for about half an hour before going to the campus
coffee house to do the nights work.

13. Here's where I am now. I'm still working on the blasted paper, it's
coming along, and having reached the present. I think this post is
finished.

Cheers!

