================
Too Plot Centric
================

.. post:: 2003-04-15
   :author: tychoish

There were three words scribbled on the title page of my English paper,
and after several long moments of collaborative deciphering I and
several other members of my class were able to make out the following:
"Too Plot Centric."

Too Plot Centric.

Now what exactly does that mean? I was clueless, and given that I had a
few rather imposing projects to work on, and that the revision of this
paper wouldn't really be due for several months, I didn't invest any
additional emotional energy into it until a little while ago when the
words "Too Plot Centric" popped into my head, and I thought "now what in
god's name does he mean by that?

Then I connected the dots, and realized what exactly he meant by "Too
Plot Centric." Only by looking at this from his perspective was I able
to fully understand what he was looking for, and the more I consider it,
the more driven I am to completely deny him the pleasure of receiving
it, because he's looking for an analytical method that I don't exactly
think should be applied to any of the humanities, epically literature.

For those of you unfamiliar with the school of literary thought known as
New Criticism, it is a product of the modern paradigm that promotes
examination of literature in terms of the techniques and devices used to
deliver the point. It aims to create a objective look at literature by
removing all, or as much context as possible from the analysis, and
focusing analysis on small selection and more minute details of a text.

This is the school of criticism that the Collage Board features for the
AP Literature and AP Literature/Composition tests, and it's also the
school of criticism which has given us academically viable papers that
propose such outlandish theories which seem to have little barring on
the piece itself.

My complaint is that looking at a piece with an eye towards new
criticism, robs the context and the soul of the literature, which may be
convent for a text book, but isn't healthy for exposing people to
literature. You can't even hope to examine literature without looking at
the authors contextual perspective, for instance you can't look at Oscar
Wilde's work without really considering his homosexuality and how that
reacted with the culture of his day, and you can't read anything by Jean
Anouilh without really considering how existentialism and the experience
of living during the Nazi occupation of France affected his themes and
messages (which I think makes his retelling of Antigone all the more
interesting and ironic.) I think if you take this out, you lose
something fundamental about the work. Additionally, I tend to be of the
school that says that a writer's write so they their works can be
considered as written, for this reason I'm wary of literature texts full
of no complete works and lots of excerpts, as well as literary schools
that pay attention to details at the expense of the big picture.

Too Plot Centric.

At least where I'm standing, people write fiction to make a point about
humanity, or something the world, and they create (hopefully) compelling
characters and situations that convey this message. Unfortunately
characters and situations don't exists well in a vacuum and you need
something, some element that binds everything together and gives the
story meaning and purpose, an element that puts the characters and
situations in terms that the reader can understand.

Something like, oh I don't know, plot?

So then pray tell, how can an essay examining literature be too plot
centric?

The problem with the modern paradigm is that it tries to isolates
things, and idealizes an objective point of view that doesn't really go
very far in the underlying effort of academic studies which should be to
create a better understanding of ourselves and the world around us.

Too plot centric?

You've *got* to be kidding me.
