=================
Transparent Style
=================

.. post:: 2003-12-11
   :author: tychoish

I think I've finally learned, after a good year and a half of trying,
what transparent style really means, and more importantly how to
accomplish it. Transparent style, of course, is the style of writing
appropriate for most academic non-fiction. Rather than creative writing
where you want to display technique, academic writing requires
transparent technique. Any device used shouldn't jump out at an average
reader. Even quality writing, if it's showy, it distracts from what
you're saying.

But that's the kind of thing that your history and countless other
teachers tell you before your first essay, not to mention 50,000 other
times throughout a course, and unless you've had an epiphany on the
subject, you (or at least I) probably don't *really* know what it means.
That isn't to say you don't think you don't know…. I'll stop there.

Anyway, I thought that was kind of cool. I was reading through a bunch
of psychology papers today (from Webster's psych student research poster
session), and frankly they were all pretty crappy. Well that's a bit
strong. What they were studying didn't interest me at all, and this is
probably fantasy on my part, but I would like to think that college
students aren't just doing research projects to display their competency
in methodology, but I suppose that's precisely what they're doing.

The kind of work I'm doing right now, all this gender theory stuff that
I'm doing for my IB classes, all display process and all of that good
stuff, but I'm doing work that I find interesting and important,
original and unique. Gay culture in Jazz age Harlem. There are like a
total of three people who've tackled this subject ever. And believe me,
I've looked. There really aren't feminist literary criticisms from a
male perspective, not to mention gender criticisms from any perspective.
I show process, I keep my self interested. One thing that got me in
trouble earlier in my school/IB career, is that I'd try and be too
contrary, and focus all of my efforts into being contrary, rather than
what I should have been doing.

Now, as my recent experience with history essays has proven, getting a
good grade isn't about saying the "right" thing as it is about
presenting it the right way. I have two perfect papers from history
class, where I wrote from two positions that got little more than a
scoff when I presented them in class. But I presented my ideas in the
*way* he wanted, and I approached the whole deal with his process. I
suppose. I mean I'd like to think I understand that epiphany better than
I actually do. I suppose there comes a point with a lot of things where,
if you take a step back things will fall into place. So that's what
really happened; but in some way I don't feel particulay adept at
articulating right now, I think that was really related to my original
point. So there!

But I digress. Transparent Style…

What I think this means, basically, is that you don't have to write
stunning prose, you just have to write coherent prose. You don't have to
use creative constructions; you just have to make sure that your essays
flow from one idea to the next seamlessly. You don't have to invent
crazy new syntactical phenomena; just manipulate the old ones for proper
emphasis (which of course means avoiding monotony). This isn't to say
that the words I put up here, aren't going to become more polished
suddenly (that's another problem completely). In some cases, TealArt is
exempt, because I want my style to show because the whole point of a
Journal is for the readers to learn about me through my writing, and
style is one of the best ways I can think to do this.

But enough metatalk. Yes, metatalk.

I think/hope that this is one of those epiphanies where nothing actually
changes, except my perception of difficulty. Sorry it took so long
folks.

PS. Chris and I are doing some metatalk ourselves about TealArt and the
like as we are want to do from time to time. We have some
simplifications coming around in the next couple of weeks, so keep your
eyes pealed. Cheers.

