============
We Have Hats
============

.. post:: 2005-11-28
   :author: tychoish

NatureWool, may in fact be my new favorite yarn for the following
reasons: it has great yardage, it's moderately priced, for a "plain old"
wool (read: not merino, or other specialty fiber). The dying is superb.
The color selection is pretty good. It felts nice, and wears well. Just
so you know.

I have a couple of sweaters still in progress. I have some seaming to do
on my Starmore Faeroe sweater, but I did some blocking with a steam
iron, and it looks better now, which is really cool. It snowed here for
the first time, and I think that I want to wear this sweater a lot this
week because it's damn amazing and it's warm and the wool is really nice
to the touch (shame it pills so much). The steaming helped with the
pilling though, it looks like. I was talking to my favorite
not-so-local-yarn store owner, and she said, that for the best results,
one should really wind cone yarn in to skeins, and wash the yarn to set
the twist, because makers don't do that for cone yarn. Something to keep
under advisement.

I also have sleeves to finish on my *Norge Fantasia* sweater, which is
nice but I can tell now that there's no way it's going to end up like I
was hoping, so I think I'm just going to make the sleeves simple and
plain because I'm not enjoying the knitting, and I don't want it to drag
on more than it has to, because I'll enjoy other projects more.

In the mean time, I got sucked into the Hat Vortex. I made 2 berets
using that pattern that I posted (sorry for the roughness of the
pattern. Felting cures all imperfections, so it doesn't really matter,
but I'll clean it up at some point.) I also made a stocking cap that's
1x1 ribbed throughout, and I really like the effect, and it's certainly
something I plan on doing again, because it turned out so well. It also
gave me the opportunity to do the decreases freestyle, which turned out
pretty well, and made the decreases almost decretive, if you know what
to look for.

I have a fairly busy week this week, until wednesday. After that it's
easy as pie. I really want to make progress on the Norge Fantasia
sleeves, (I've also decided that I need to redo the cast off on the
collar, but thats quick and can probably be done during Lost or Veronica
Mars on Wednesday.) During the aforeeluded trip to the not-so-local-yarn
store, I got yarn for a couple of projects (woot thanksgiving day sales,
and amazingly awesome yarn store owners and good friends who enable
fiber compulsions.) Anyway... I'll post more about what's coming down
the pike as I think about it.

Also, in TA: Knitting News, I think we're going have some pretty intense
changes before the end of the year. TA:K might splinter off, or we might
get new contributor(s), or we might become a more distinctly separate
site (but remain functionally where we are). Stay Tuned.

Cheers, Sam

