==============
Weekend Update
==============

.. post:: 2007-12-02
   :author: tychoish

I hope you're weekend is going well.

I had a somewhat less than productive day yesterday, there were *things
that needed to be done,* and doesn't it always seems that those things
are the same things that you *need to be doing.* But we can pass it off
to the curse of modernity and move on, I guess.

I've been working a lot of my statement of purpose, which is getting
very close to being done. Close but not there. None the less, I have a
2-3 page document that only needs polish and a few sentences here and
there to tie everything together, and punch up things like research
experience and what not.

At the same time, I've been working on outlining and starting my big
final paper for this semester, which will also be my writing sample for
a couple of schools. It's scary that I'm not further along, but it's a
relatively short paper, and while I don't have an actual version of this
paper that I can cut and paste text from, this paper is about my
interests, exactly (it proposes the project that I describe in my
statement,) so I know it backwards and forwards and I just need to
figure out how to get it out into words.

The cool thing: I get really excited and happy when I get to work on the
material, which I think is a really good sign. Though I've been doing
(obviously) a lot of fiction and informal writing (blog stuff) of late,
the truth is that I kind of enjoy academic writing, and I think with a
little time and energy, I'm not *that* bad at it. Now all I need is some
time, some caffeine, and it'll be ok.

In the knitting news, I think I've successfully bent space-time. I've
been knitting on the gray sweater of doom. Apparently I name sweaters
{color} sweater of doom, when they've taken forever to knit. Anyway, I
started this in, abut august of 2005, and have dabbled in it a bit for
the past couple of years.

Well, I picked it up for a change of pace, while I wait to get back to
the color work when I have a better idea of how I want to do the
shoulders and the brainpower (read above for info on where my brainpower
is going).

I didn't actually expect to get so close to finishing the sweater, this
has, for some time been my "movie knitting" because there's so much
plain knitting without thinking, that it's often good for knitting
whilst at the movies. It's one of those projects that I don't really
think of as "counting" towards the number of projects I have on the
needles. I spent next to nothing (maybe 15 bucks for the yarn,) and I've
since bought, I think, a replacement needle because I considered this
one to be something of a lost cause.

But what do you know, this project was the right thing for my brain at
the moment, and perhaps I was further along on this project than I
thought I was. Anyway, end result, I'm basically done knitting the body.
Wacky I know. I decided late in the game to knit a single cable from the
neck across the shoulder and down into the cuff. Because, you know, how
much stocking stitch can you really cope with.

I did some sort row shaping across the back of the shoulders, and just
this morning I cast on the 8 stitches for the shoulder strap, and by god
is this fun. My latest design feature that I've been working on for my
next couple of sweaters is shoulder joins that have straps or saddles in
them that then run down the sleeve. It adds to the flexibility, it gives
you something to gently shape the sleeves downward, and makes it
possible to avoid sleeve cap shaping which is awkward in knitting
fabric. (It works, but really in a knitted fabric, the main goal is to
get the shoulder set in far enough, the sleeve top will take care of
itself, particularly if there's some sort of strap/saddle.) And the
straps allow you to keep the structure of the seam, while avoiding the
inflexibility of a hard join.

The other nifty thing about this sweater is that I think, I have
developed a way to--assuming you knit off of a cone as I have--to only
need to weave in ends at the terminating ends (cuffs, bottom hem,
collar). I think I'm going to have to cheat a little bit on the collar,
but it's a cool game to figure out how to get everything to even out
without having to break the yarn.

Anyway, be well, I should get back to real writing.

Onward and upward!

*ps. If I run bibtex/latex through TeXshop, rather than through the
TextMate bundle, everything compiles fine. Still not sure why this is
the case, but I don't argue with success... Much. I'd of course not have
to use more text-editing programs than I have to, so if anyone has
ideas, I'd love to hear them.*

