==========
Write More
==========

.. post:: 2015-07-19
   :author: tychoish
   :location: Brooklyn, NY

I keep pretty busy: in many ways too busy, which his compounded by the
fact that I'm working on a lot of different projects: a few writing
projects, some programming projects, not to mention a handful of
related work projects.

It's probably too much, and I'm very aware of two effects that I'm
keen to manage and deal with.

#. Context switching is expensive and every time you switch focus or
   projects there are associated costs of the context switch.

#. If you don't dedicate time and energy to a project on a regular
   basis, the cost of the context switching is harder, and more
   expensive, because you have to figure out all of your earlier
   decisions.

The conclusion then is, "dedicate large blocks of time to your
projects, and make sure that you regularly spend a little time on any
project that you want to make progress on." That's hard.

Software developers think a lot about how to manage this problem, and
as I attempt to restart a bunch of my personal projects, and focus on
making things outside of work again, I've been thinking about how to
extrapolate these lessons to my own personal projects and avoid losing
all of my time to context switching, and make sure that I'm making
progress.

While the last year has been relatively light with regards to personal
projects, I've been working on one or two things pretty consistently
since high school. I haven't, however, written fiction in 4 years or
so, despite an attempt about 3.5 years ago to outline and begin
writing a new novel. There are a lot of reasons--different goals,
priorities, and life events, all contributed--in the end I still have
to re-teach myself how to write.

Not, exactly, how to write or tell stories, but how to manage a
writing project and how to fit writing.

I've begun writing, longhand, notes for a story. Really the same story
I wanted to write 3.5 years ago, and I really enjoy many aspects of
the story and it's good to re-explore these ideas with a more fresh
perspective. I'm pleasantly startled by the extent to which writing a
(small) page of notes every day lets me keep the story fresh and make
progress on story development: even though the progress and time spent
are small, the small amounts of progress and opportunity to focus on
the story for a few moments every day has been grand. It's like a
mindfulness exercise and in that delightful.

Context switching is still hard. I'm working on the following
approaches:

- Dedicating some time to project planning and identifying descried
  tasks make it easier to make small accomplishments.

- Breaking up context switches with some sort of physical
  activity. Rather than trying and bounce directly between tasks,
  moving around and doing something simple makes it easy to focus on
  the next step and make the most of a limited task.

- Explicitly schedule research and other open ended tasks to avoid
  excessive rabbit holes and distraction.

Other lessons forthcoming.
